Lv3-swap
I. LAYING PLANS
I. LAYING PLANS

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State.
1. Sun The Tzu art of of said: vital war State. the importance is to

2-1. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin.
2-1. It is life death, of a and road to matter either to or ruin. a safety

2-2. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.
2-2. Hence a it subject can of is on inquiry neglected. be no which account

3. The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.
3. The five the be the in obtaining seeking account conditions is field. one's into governed determine when factors, by in to deliberations, art constant of to war, taken then,

4. These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline.
4. These Moral and (3) Earth; Commander; are: discipline. The (4) Law; (2) (5) Method (1) Heaven; The

5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.
5,6. The be Law Moral their in causes accord so by the with they him people danger. follow lives, to that regardless their undismayed any complete ruler, will of

7. Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons.
7. Heaven and and seasons. heat, times signifies night and day, cold

8. Earth comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death.
8. Earth small; great passes; and open security; chances narrow and of comprises life and danger distances, the and death. ground

9. The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage and strictness.
9. The strictness. virtues the benevolence, sincerity, for Commander and of wisdom, stands courage

10. By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.
10. By the proper expenditure. maintenance of the the roads army the subdivisions, which rank marshaling the may by of reach the method in discipline and to among of control graduations understood of military army, officers, are be its the supplies and

11. These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail.
11. These be who knows knows fail. them not victorious; he will them will heads should be familiar to every general: he who five

12. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:--
12. Therefore, made of a let wise:-- comparison, in the basis this them be your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, in

13-1. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law?
13-1. (1) of is imbued Which law? with the two sovereigns Moral the

13-2. (2) Which of the two generals has most ability?
13-2. (2) two most ability? generals has of the Which

13-3. (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth?
13-3. (3) derived and Earth? from Heaven With whom lie the advantages

13-4. (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced?
13-4. (4) is rigorously enforced? discipline most which side On

13-5. (5) Which army is stronger?
13-5. (5) stronger? is Which army

13-6. (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained?
13-6. (6) and highly trained? men more On which side are officers

13-7. (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment?
13-7. (7) army In is constancy there which both the punishment? and in greater reward

14. By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat.
14. By of I can means defeat. forecast victory seven considerations or these

15-1. The general that hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it, will conquer: let such a one be retained in command!
15-1. The one and command! a retained will acts be conquer: upon general in hearkens let my counsel it, such that to

15-2. The general that hearkens not to my counsel nor acts upon it, will suffer defeat:-- let such a one be dismissed!
15-2. The such counsel dismissed! let one it, nor a will acts general be hearkens suffer to my upon defeat:-- that not

16. While heading the profit of my counsel, avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules.
16. While my profit circumstances of also yourself and helpful avail beyond heading the any counsel, the over ordinary rules. of

17. According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one's plans.
17. According are circumstances modify should one plans. as one's favorable,

18. All warfare is based on deception.
18. All warfare on deception. is based

19. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.
19. Hence, attack, inactive; we believe must forces, seem are our we seem away; are using make far we near, when we must must we when believe must are able we unable; we to far the him near. make when when enemy away,

20-1. Hold out baits to entice the enemy.
20-1. Hold enemy. the entice to baits out

20-2. Feign disorder, and crush him.
20-2. Feign him. crush disorder, and

21-1. If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him.
21-1. If points, for him. be prepared he is secure at all

21-2. If he is in superior strength, evade him.
21-2. If he is strength, evade in superior him.

22-1. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him.
22-1. If temper, irritate him. seek to your opponent is of choleric

22-2. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.
22-2. Pretend that grow arrogant. he may be weak, to

23-1. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest.
23-1. If taking is him give ease, rest. he no his

23-2. If his forces are united, separate them.
23-2. If them. separate united, are forces his

24. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.
24. Attack where appear where him expected. you are is unprepared, not he

25. These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand.
25. These must divulged beforehand. not be military devices, leading to victory,

26-1. Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought.
26-1. Now calculations wins a many his temple who is ere battle makes the battle in the general fought.

26-2. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand.
26-2. The makes calculations beforehand. but few general who loses a battle

26-3. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all!
26-3. Thus all! defeat: lead and few much how to calculation no many calculations to at do calculations more victory,

26-4. It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.
26-4. It can to this I who is attention or likely point that to win foresee is by lose.
