Lv3-swap
XI. THE NINE SITUATIONS
XI. THE SITUATIONS NINE

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) facile ground; (3) contentious ground; (4) open ground; (5) ground of intersecting highways; (6) serious ground; (7) difficult ground; (8) hemmed-in ground; (9) desperate ground.
1. Sun hemmed-in (2) ground. ground (9) ground: nine intersecting (1) ground; facile (6) ground; varieties (5) ground; highways; contentious (7) difficult Tzu Dispersive The (8) of (4) of ground; (3) recognizes of desperate ground; ground; art war ground; open serious said:

2. When a chieftain is fighting in his own territory, it is dispersive ground.
2. When ground. in fighting it territory, is a dispersive his own chieftain is

3. When he has penetrated into hostile territory, but to no great distance, it is facile ground.
3. When he hostile but into has territory, no facile penetrated great distance, is ground. to it

4. Ground the possession of which imports great advantage to either side, is contentious ground.
4. Ground of the which to imports possession either great ground. contentious side, advantage is

5. Ground on which each side has liberty of movement is open ground.
5. Ground which liberty of on ground. movement is side has open each

6. Ground which forms the key to three contiguous states, so that he who occupies it first has most of the Empire at his command, is a ground of intersecting highways.
6. Ground the key that it who to the has command, three of of so which most Empire a states, occupies his highways. forms at is ground intersecting contiguous he first

7. When an army has penetrated into the heart of a hostile country, leaving a number of fortified cities in its rear, it is serious ground.
7. When leaving cities fortified it rear, of ground. serious in its number a is army has penetrated into the heart of a hostile country, an

8. Mountain forests, rugged steeps, marshes and fens-- all country that is hard to traverse: this is difficult ground.
8. Mountain that marshes and country hard to steeps, difficult traverse: fens-- all this is is forests, rugged ground.

9. Ground which is reached through narrow gorges, and from which we can only retire by tortuous paths, so that a small number of the enemy would suffice to crush a large body of our men: this is hemmed in ground.
9. Ground reached by through enemy narrow we which suffice retire paths, so crush number from would large a that our of hemmed only in men: and small tortuous which the gorges, body is ground. of can a to this is

10. Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.
10. Ground can desperate from destruction without on ground. fighting by only be delay, is which saved we

11-1. On dispersive ground, therefore, fight not.
11-1. On dispersive fight not. ground, therefore,

11-2. On facile ground, halt not.
11-2. On not. halt facile ground,

11-3. On contentious ground, attack not.
11-3. On not. attack contentious ground,

12-1. On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way.
12-1. On to enemy's way. block the open ground, do not try

12-2. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.
12-2. On join your allies. hands with the ground of intersecting highways,

13-1. On serious ground, gather in plunder.
13-1. On serious in plunder. ground, gather

13-2. In difficult ground, keep steadily on the march.
13-2. In difficult ground, on the keep steadily march.

14-1. On hemmed-in ground, resort to stratagem.
14-1. On hemmed-in to stratagem. ground, resort

14-2. On desperate ground, fight.
14-2. On desperate ground, fight.

15. Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men.
15. Those leaders and of divisions; old between knew hinder how to wedge good front a prevent from large co-operation to who troops enemy's bad, were rallying his the called from to drive skillful rear; and small the rescuing officers men. their the the between

16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder.
16. When disorder. united, were keep to men the in they managed enemy's them

17. When it was to their advantage, they made a forward move; when otherwise, they stopped still.
17. When it advantage, made their was they forward stopped to move; when they still. a otherwise,

18. If asked how to cope with a great host of the enemy in orderly array and on the point of marching to the attack, I should say: "Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will."
18. If with point a by great array host something of marching orderly your the in to holds should the seizing asked opponent on he how to I will to amenable the enemy cope of say: "Begin which dear; be will." your then and attack,

19. Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots.
19. Rapidity is war: the take the advantage your of essence make unreadiness, unexpected of unguarded by attack routes, spots. enemy's way and

20. The following are the principles to be observed by an invading force: The further you penetrate into a country, the greater will be the solidarity of your troops, and thus the defenders will not prevail against you.
20. The you. force: principles will by observed The the into further greater of solidarity to and troops, will penetrate following thus be an you defenders be a the not are the country, against prevail the your invading

21. Make forays in fertile country in order to supply your army with food.
21. Make food. in country your supply fertile forays with order to in army

22-1. Carefully study the well-being of your men, and do not overtax them.
22-1. Carefully the men, and study them. do not of your overtax well-being

22-2. Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength.
22-2. Concentrate strength. your hoard and energy your

22-3. Keep your army continually on the move, and devise unfathomable plans.
22-3. Keep move, unfathomable plans. and devise your army continually on the

23-1. Throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape, and they will prefer death to flight.
23-1. Throw positions to no escape, will your flight. they and whence there prefer death soldiers is into

23-2. If they will face death, there is nothing they may not achieve.
23-2. If will is nothing they achieve. they may death, there not face

23-3. Officers and men alike will put forth their uttermost strength.
23-3. Officers alike men their forth put strength. and uttermost will

24-1. Soldiers when in desperate straits lose the sense of fear.
24-1. Soldiers desperate in sense the lose fear. when of straits

24-2. If there is no place of refuge, they will stand firm.
24-2. If refuge, stand firm. they will there is no place of

24-3. If they are in hostile country, they will show a stubborn front.
24-3. If are they will they front. show a hostile country, stubborn in

24-4. If there is no help for it, they will fight hard.
24-4. If it, fight hard. they will there is no help for

25. Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the qui vive; without waiting to be asked, they will do your will; without restrictions, they will be faithful; without giving orders, they can be trusted.
25. Thus, waiting the to do soldiers will on will; without vive; asked, restrictions, your the they will without waiting can faithful; be constantly be giving to be without they orders, be marshaled, without will they trusted. qui be

26-1. Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts.
26-1. Prohibit do superstitious doubts. away with the taking of omens, and

26-2. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.
26-2. Then, itself death need calamity no feared. until be comes,

27. If our soldiers are not overburdened with money, it is not because they have a distaste for riches; if their lives are not unduly long, it is not because they are disinclined to longevity.
27. If for it money, if because not distaste lives their not unduly not not soldiers disinclined long, overburdened they have is are with they because is a it are riches; our longevity. to are

28-1. On the day they are ordered out to battle, your soldiers may weep, those sitting up bedewing their garments, and those lying down letting the tears run down their cheeks.
28-1. On they are soldiers sitting weep, ordered and bedewing letting out down garments, your the their those tears battle, those down cheeks. day lying the run their to may up

28-2. But let them once be brought to bay, and they will display the courage of a Chu or a Kuei.
28-2. But brought once courage be they and a the bay, Chu let or display to them of a Kuei. will

29-1. The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan.
29-1. The be the shuai-jan. likened to tactician may skillful

29-2. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the ChUng mountains.
29-2. Now mountains. snake a in found is the ChUng that is shuai-jan the

29-3. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both.
29-3. Strike its strike head, its be attacked tail; strike tail, its be its head; will middle, and be and and will tail its by attacked you will at head by and you at by attacked both. at you

30-1. Asked if an army can be made to imitate the shuai-jan, I should answer, Yes.
30-1. Asked imitate the should answer, shuai-jan, I Yes. if an army can be made to

30-2. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; yet if they are crossing a river in the same boat and are caught by a storm, they will come to each other's assistance just as the left hand helps the right.
30-2. For and river the storm, men they of will Yueh the if to a yet same other's caught boat they the each crossing as men helps are the of hand are enemies; Wu in by a come assistance left right. the just are and

31. Hence it is not enough to put one's trust in the tethering of horses, and the burying of chariot wheels in the ground.
31. Hence and of chariot tethering ground. wheels in the burying the of horses, is not enough to put one's trust in the it

32. The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.
32. The manage which standard to to is courage one army which principle all up an on of must reach. set

33. How to make the best of both strong and weak-- that is a question involving the proper use of ground.
33. How of the question best weak-- and the a strong proper to use is both make involving of ground. that

34. Thus the skillful general conducts his army just as though he were leading a single man, willy-nilly, by the hand.
34. Thus his general a conducts though as man, leading just willy-nilly, the by were army skillful single the hand. he

35. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus ensure secrecy; upright and just, and thus maintain order.
35. It just, to order. and thus thus be and ensure quiet is maintain business secrecy; a general and upright the of

36. He must be able to mystify his officers and men by false reports and appearances, and thus keep them in total ignorance.
36. He must mystify men his be officers and and able reports false thus to total and in keep ignorance. by appearances, them

37-1. By altering his arrangements and changing his plans, he keeps the enemy without definite knowledge.
37-1. By he keeps without definite the enemy knowledge. altering his arrangements and changing his plans,

37-2. By shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, he prevents the enemy from anticipating his purpose.
37-2. By shifting taking routes, and his circuitous prevents his camp the enemy anticipating purpose. he from

38-1. At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him.
38-1. At of acts leader like an the the who army critical away climbed height moment, him. a and kicks the behind one up then ladder has

38-2. He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand.
38-2. He hand. into deep he before men carries his hostile territory his shows

39. He burns his boats and breaks his cooking-pots; like a shepherd driving a flock of sheep, he drives his men this way and that, and nothing knows whither he is going.
39. He his is shepherd whither of burns his drives and cooking-pots; knows men going. his a way this a he that, he boats like nothing and driving and flock breaks sheep,

40. To muster his host and bring it into danger:-- this may be termed the business of the general.
40. To this and bring danger:-- be termed host the the it into business of may muster his general.

41. The different measures suited to the nine varieties of ground; the expediency of aggressive or defensive tactics; and the fundamental laws of human nature: these are things that must most certainly be studied.
41. The to be of and of suited tactics; fundamental laws ground; these of must different studied. nature: the expediency the are things the nine that human aggressive or most certainly measures defensive varieties

42. When invading hostile territory, the general principle is, that penetrating deeply brings cohesion; penetrating but a short way means dispersion.
42. When general territory, penetrating the penetrating that a cohesion; is, short invading way brings principle hostile but means dispersion. deeply

43-1. When you leave your own country behind, and take your army across neighborhood territory, you find yourself on critical ground.
43-1. When country your territory, own your take find neighborhood and yourself you on across behind, leave you critical ground. army

43-2. When there are means of communication on all four sides, the ground is one of intersecting highways.
43-2. When of intersecting four sides, is there highways. ground the communication on one of are all means

44-1. When you penetrate deeply into a country, it is serious ground.
44-1. When country, serious ground. it is you penetrate deeply into a

44-2. When you penetrate but a little way, it is facile ground.
44-2. When way, facile ground. it is you penetrate but a little

45-1. When you have the enemy's strongholds on your rear, and narrow passes in front, it is hemmed-in ground.
45-1. When and enemy's strongholds rear, passes in the hemmed-in front, on your it is narrow you have ground.

45-2. When there is no place of refuge at all, it is desperate ground.
45-2. When ground. of place it all, no there desperate refuge at is is

46-1. Therefore, on dispersive ground, I would inspire my men with unity of purpose.
46-1. Therefore, purpose. would I with men ground, on of inspire my dispersive unity

46-2. On facile ground, I would see that there is close connection between all parts of my army.
46-2. On would my is close all facile army. between connection see that parts of ground, there I

47. On contentious ground, I would hurry up my rear.
47. On would my rear. hurry up ground, I contentious

48-1. On open ground, I would keep a vigilant eye on my defenses.
48-1. On ground, a vigilant open defenses. eye on would keep my I

48-2. On ground of intersecting highways, I would consolidate my alliances.
48-2. On intersecting of consolidate would I alliances. ground my highways,

49-1. On serious ground, I would try to ensure a continuous stream of supplies.
49-1. On supplies. try would continuous a I serious of to ensure ground, stream

49-2. On difficult ground, I would keep pushing on along the road.
49-2. On pushing the road. on along difficult ground, I would keep

50-1. On hemmed-in ground, I would block any way of retreat.
50-1. On I ground, way any block retreat. hemmed-in of would

50-2. On desperate ground, I would proclaim to my soldiers the hopelessness of saving their lives.
50-2. On soldiers the saving their hopelessness of lives. desperate ground, I would proclaim to my

51. For it is the soldier's disposition to offer an obstinate resistance when surrounded, to fight hard when he cannot help himself, and to obey promptly when he has fallen into danger.
51. For to into resistance has fight it cannot he to offer he help danger. is surrounded, and himself, obstinate fallen obey when the an when promptly when soldier's to disposition hard

52-1. We cannot enter into alliance with neighboring princes until we are acquainted with their designs.
52-1. We until we with their are acquainted designs. cannot enter into alliance with neighboring princes

52-2. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country-- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.
52-2. We to and on face we fit the the country-- the forests, its precipices, are swamps. and march unless of its pitfalls lead an and mountains are familiar its marshes not with army

52-3. We shall be unable to turn natural advantages to account unless we make use of local guides.
52-3. We to local to account make shall guides. we unless turn natural use of be advantages unable

53. To be ignored of any one of the following four or five principles does not befit a warlike prince.
53. To prince. five any the following does principles one a befit ignored four or warlike be of not of

54-1. When a warlike prince attacks a powerful state, his generalship shows itself in preventing the concentration of the enemy's forces.
54-1. When a prince preventing attacks generalship his concentration in state, of a the itself powerful warlike the enemy's forces. shows

54-2. He overawes his opponents, and their allies are prevented from joining against him.
54-2. He him. their and from prevented opponents, overawes against allies are his joining

55-1. Hence he does not strive to ally himself with all and sundry, nor does he foster the power of other states.
55-1. Hence the himself states. foster of sundry, with power nor all he other not does to ally and he does strive

55-2. He carries out his own secret designs, keeping his antagonists in awe.
55-2. He out designs, keeping carries awe. his antagonists own secret in his

55-3. Thus he is able to capture their cities and overthrow their kingdoms.
55-3. Thus is their cities he kingdoms. and overthrow to capture their able

56. Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue orders without regard to previous arrangements; and you will be able to handle a whole army as though you had to do with but a single man.
56. Bestow be without orders to previous to will a handle to as army to without a though rule, arrangements; and had whole issue with do regard you you but able rewards man. single regard

57-1. Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; never let them know your design.
57-1. Confront design. deed the them let with your your itself; never soldiers know

57-2. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.
57-2. When gloomy. tell bright, before their nothing them bring situation the outlook eyes; but is the is when it

58. Place your army in deadly peril, and it will survive; plunge it into desperate straits, and it will come off in safety.
58. Place your peril, survive; and army it desperate will in into it it deadly in and off will safety. plunge straits, come

59. For it is precisely when a force has fallen into harm's way that is capable of striking a blow for victory.
59. For striking has victory. of blow way fallen a that into it for precisely is a force harm's capable is when

60. Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.
60. Success purpose. by gained to ourselves is in enemy's carefully accommodating warfare the

61. By persistently hanging on the enemy's flank, we shall succeed in the long run in killing the commander-in-chief.
61. By succeed the enemy's shall the long on the run flank, we in killing in persistently hanging commander-in-chief.

62. This is called ability to accomplish a thing by sheer cunning.
62. This a sheer cunning. thing by is called ability to accomplish

63. On the day that you take up your command, block the frontier passes, destroy the official tallies, and stop the passage of all emissaries.
63. On day your you command, the block take the that frontier up passes, the tallies, stop passage all destroy and of official emissaries. the

64. Be stern in the council-chamber, so that you may control the situation.
64. Be in that you stern situation. may control council-chamber, so the the

65. If the enemy leaves a door open, you must rush in.
65. If open, rush in. you must the enemy leaves a door

66. Forestall your opponent by seizing what he holds dear, and subtly contrive to time his arrival on the ground.
66. Forestall ground. contrive seizing holds dear, time to what on arrival opponent and subtly the your by his he

67. Walk in the path defined by rule, and accommodate yourself to the enemy until you can fight a decisive battle.
67. Walk by path until defined yourself accommodate can enemy and fight in a the rule, the you decisive battle. to

68. At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden, until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you.
68. At first, the coyness of until of you running emulate gives a and it the late will to an exhibit too enemy maiden, rapidity for be afterwards you. enemy opening; then, the oppose hare, the a
