Lv3-swap
IX.  THE ARMY ON THE MARCH
IX. THE MARCH THE ARMY ON

1-1. Sun Tzu said: We come now to the question of encamping the army, and observing signs of the enemy.
1-1. Sun enemy. the come the question and army, now of signs said: of encamping the Tzu We observing to

1-2. Pass quickly over mountains, and keep in the neighborhood of valleys.
1-2. Pass in of valleys. the neighborhood quickly over mountains, and keep

2-1. Camp in high places, facing the sun.
2-1. Camp sun. the facing places, high in

2-2. Do not climb heights in order to fight.
2-2. Do not climb order to heights in fight.

2-3. So much for mountain warfare.
2-3. So warfare. mountain much for

3. After crossing a river, you should get far away from it.
3. After get from it. far away crossing a river, you should

4-1. When an invading force crosses a river in its onward march, do not advance to meet it in mid-stream.
4-1. When mid-stream. do crosses in its advance not a it meet invading onward march, in an force to river

4-2. It will be best to let half the army get across, and then deliver your attack.
4-2. It will let the to be half get your best across, and deliver attack. army then

5. If you are anxious to fight, you should not go to meet the invader near a river which he has to cross.
5. If you fight, go you are should invader not anxious the meet river to to a has which cross. to near he

6-1. Moor your craft higher up than the enemy, and facing the sun.
6-1. Moor craft the enemy, your sun. and facing up than the higher

6-2. Do not move up-stream to meet the enemy.
6-2. Do not move meet the up-stream to enemy.

6-3. So much for river warfare.
6-3. So warfare. river much for

7. In crossing salt-marshes, your sole concern should be to get over them quickly, without any delay.
7. In crossing concern be sole salt-marshes, should get any your over them without delay. to quickly,

8-1. If forced to fight in a salt-marsh, you should have water and grass near you, and get your back to a clump of trees.
8-1. If to you in should forced have a water fight and salt-marsh, grass you, get back a of near your clump and trees. to

8-2. So much for operations in salt-marches.
8-2. So much in salt-marches. for operations

9-1. In dry, level country, take up an easily accessible position with rising ground to your right and on your rear, so that the danger may be in front, and safety lie behind.
9-1. In dry, an your and to level on your that accessible be so safety country, easily the right with danger may behind. take rear, in rising ground front, and lie up position

9-2. So much for campaigning in flat country.
9-2. So country. flat in campaigning for much

10. These are the four useful branches of military knowledge which enabled the Yellow Emperor to vanquish four several sovereigns.
10. These sovereigns. the useful military knowledge Emperor Yellow branches four vanquish the which enabled several are four to of

11. All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark.
11. All prefer low and armies dark. sunny places ground to to high

12. If you are careful of your men, and camp on hard ground, the army will be free from disease of every kind, and this will spell victory.
12. If hard this will kind, disease spell and of victory. careful free be will of every from the your men, and camp on you ground, are army

13-1. When you come to a hill or a bank, occupy the sunny side, with the slope on your right rear.
13-1. When hill to with a occupy bank, slope side, a on you your sunny or come the right rear. the

13-2. Thus you will at once act for the benefit of your soldiers and utilize the natural advantages of the ground.
13-2. Thus act at utilize once of benefit natural and the advantages you of soldiers for will the the ground. your

14. When, in consequence of heavy rains up-country, a river which you wish to ford is swollen and flecked with foam, you must wait until it subsides.
14. When, up-country, which rains you a in heavy to river consequence must is flecked of subsides. and with you wait it wish swollen foam, until ford

15. Country in which there are precipitous cliffs with torrents running between, deep natural hollows, confined places, tangled thickets, quagmires and crevasses, should be left with all possible speed and not approached.
15. Country cliffs not between, speed confined in quagmires thickets, be with possible and approached. which natural should crevasses, running and left tangled there torrents all with deep are hollows, precipitous places,

16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them, we should let the enemy have them on his rear.
16. While should enemy to his we them should while have such rear. face them; places, the we the we on let them, we get keep enemy away approach from

17. If in the neighborhood of your camp there should be any hilly country, ponds surrounded by aquatic grass, hollow basins filled with reeds, or woods with thick undergrowth, they must be carefully routed out and searched; for these are places where men in ambush or insidious spies are likely to be lurking.
17. If be thick any in hilly reeds, country, the ponds they surrounded neighborhood by filled aquatic of grass, be with your with woods must camp out routed these there men hollow insidious should to and are in spies be where likely or for basins or undergrowth, carefully searched; places ambush are lurking.

18. When the enemy is close at hand and remains quiet, he is relying on the natural strength of his position.
18. When at is on close quiet, remains natural relying and strength the of is hand enemy the his position. he

19. When he keeps aloof and tries to provoke a battle, he is anxious for the other side to advance.
19. When advance. is and provoke a for anxious tries side other keeps battle, he to he aloof the to

20. If his place of encampment is easy of access, he is tendering a bait.
20. If of his encampment access, is place he easy bait. a is of tendering

21-1. Movement amongst the trees of a forest shows that the enemy is advancing.
21-1. Movement advancing. a of the that trees amongst is forest shows the enemy

21-2. The appearance of a number of screens in the midst of thick grass means that the enemy wants to make us suspicious.
21-2. The appearance of midst screens of in means the a grass thick enemy number us the make wants suspicious. of that to

22-1. The rising of birds in their flight is the sign of an ambuscade.
22-1. The ambuscade. their in sign the birds rising an flight is of of

22-2. Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack is coming.
22-2. Startled a is coming. sudden attack indicate that beasts

23-1. When there is dust rising in a high column, it is the sign of chariots advancing; when the dust is low, but spread over a wide area, it betokens the approach of infantry.
23-1. When rising of column, the sign dust when is low, it a but betokens there infantry. over is the dust wide area, in a it spread of chariots the approach is advancing; high

23-2. When it branches out in different directions, it shows that parties have been sent to collect firewood.
23-2. When in collect shows that been it firewood. have parties different directions, sent to branches it out

23-3. A few clouds of dust moving to and fro signify that the army is encamping.
23-3. A fro signify army is that the encamping. few clouds of dust moving to and

24-1. Humble words and increased preparations are signs that the enemy is about to advance.
24-1. Humble increased words preparations the are and enemy signs advance. to is that about

24-2. Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat.
24-2. Violent language as to forward and if attack will driving are signs he retreat. the that

25. When the light chariots come out first and take up a position on the wings, it is a sign that the enemy is forming for battle.
25. When first up out a and the come on take light enemy wings, a chariots battle. is sign the is for position it that forming the

26. Peace proposals unaccompanied by a sworn covenant indicate a plot.
26. Peace by unaccompanied indicate covenant sworn plot. proposals a a

27. When there is much running about and the soldiers fall into rank, it means that the critical moment has come.
27. When about much means running fall soldiers the it the critical there moment rank, and is that has come. into

28. When some are seen advancing and some retreating, it is a lure.
28. When are some retreating, some lure. it is advancing and a seen

29. When the soldiers stand leaning on their spears, they are faint from want of food.
29. When they are want of faint from food. the soldiers stand leaning on their spears,

30. If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering from thirst.
30. If by sent to begin themselves, the are from army draw water is suffering drinking those who thirst.

31. If the enemy sees an advantage to be gained and makes no effort to secure it, the soldiers are exhausted.
31. If advantage sees to an and gained it, effort be the the soldiers no to enemy secure are exhausted. makes

32-1. If birds gather on any spot, it is unoccupied.
32-1. If any is unoccupied. spot, it gather on birds

32-2. Clamor by night betokens nervousness.
32-2. Clamor nervousness. betokens by night

33-1. If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak.
33-1. If is camp, the there weak. general's authority in the is disturbance

33-2. If the banners and flags are shifted about, sedition is afoot.
33-2. If shifted is afoot. about, sedition the banners and flags are

33-3. If the officers are angry, it means that the men are weary.
33-3. If officers means that the weary. the men angry, it are are

34. When an army feeds its horses with grain and kills its cattle for food, and when the men do not hang their cooking-pots over the camp-fires, showing that they will not return to their tents, you may know that they are determined to fight to the death.
34. When may their are return to men that their death. over to you and when do know cooking-pots camp-fires, showing they not not tents, determined army that its fight with food, and the its will for the hang the they to an feeds horses grain kills cattle

35. The sight of men whispering together in small knots or speaking in subdued tones points to disaffection amongst the rank and file.
35. The sight together or in of small tones knots men subdued in disaffection whispering and to rank amongst file. speaking points the

36. Too frequent rewards signify that the enemy is at the end of his resources; too many punishments betray a condition of dire distress.
36. Too too betray a of distress. condition of many punishments dire his resources; rewards signify that the enemy is at the end frequent

37. To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.
37. To intelligence. enemy's but take fright shows numbers, afterwards lack supreme by at the of begin bluster, a to

38. When envoys are sent with compliments in their mouths, it is a sign that the enemy wishes for a truce.
38. When compliments sent that with it mouths, enemy sign their wishes envoys for a in are the a truce. is

39. If the enemy's troops march up angrily and remain facing ours for a long time without either joining battle or taking themselves off again, the situation is one that demands great vigilance and circumspection.
39. If either remain and battle for march without taking or ours again, off one enemy's vigilance the up a long is themselves angrily demands that facing time situation great joining the circumspection. and troops

40-1. If our troops are no more in number than the enemy, that is amply sufficient; it only means that no direct attack can be made.
40-1. If is means only attack direct it made. be that no sufficient; amply can troops are no more in number than the enemy, that our

40-2. What we can do is simply to concentrate all our available strength, keep a close watch on the enemy, and obtain reinforcements.
40-2. What we simply our to can concentrate a all do keep strength, on is obtain watch and the reinforcements. available close enemy,

41. He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them.
41. He his forethought but of is sure no by to makes light be captured opponents who exercises them.

42-1. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless.
42-1. If are grown before attached soldiers to they you, punished they have will prove and, submissive, will practically not unless be submissive; useless. then

42-2. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.
42-2. If, punishments have become you, not enforced, soldiers be they attached to will still are when the useless.

43-1. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline.
43-1. Therefore in be under treated with instance by kept first means soldiers of but the must control iron discipline. humanity,

43-2. This is a certain road to victory.
43-2. This victory. to road certain a is

44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.
44. If are soldiers if commands army the its well-disciplined; enforced, discipline in will be habitually training not, be bad. will

45. If a general shows confidence in his men but always insists on his orders being obeyed, the gain will be mutual.
45. If the men mutual. obeyed, will on but gain his always a be shows orders in his insists being general confidence

