Lv3-swap
III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM
III. ATTACK STRATAGEM BY

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
1-1. Sun Tzu art is take all said: the enemy's and war, and whole not In of intact; to best to shatter good. the country destroy thing of it is so practical the

1-2. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.
1-2. So, an it too, destroy army is than to to better to a detachment to them. a entire recapture capture or company than destroy entire it, regiment, a

2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
2. Hence excellence breaking the supreme fighting. enemy's resistance consists in without excellence; supreme fight and conquer in all your battles is not to

3. Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities.
3. Thus to enemy's balk enemy's the the enemy's in plans; the the the next to prevent highest the in next form to of army of and is of generalship besiege best the is walled attack field; to is junction forces; order the the worst is cities. all policy

4-1. The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided.
4-1. The not rule to if besiege is, it walled avoided. be can cities possibly

4-2. The preparation of mantlets, movable shelters, and various implements of war, will take up three whole months; and the piling up of mounds over against the walls will take three months more.
4-2. The preparation and three months; up of and the of implements the up three mantlets, various mounds whole war, over against more. movable piling walls will take will take months shelters, of

5-1. The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken.
5-1. The control remains launch with the to ants, result that his men one-third the general, untaken. his men to the are slain, his irritation, while of assault like town still unable swarming will

5-2. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege.
5-2. Such are the of a disastrous effects siege.

6. Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.
6. Therefore leader subdues fighting; cities captures the them; laying kingdom enemy's in to any the siege he lengthy without their their field. skillful overthrows without operations the troops he without

7-1. With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete.
7-1. With without man, his Empire, complete. triumph will losing a be and thus, forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the his

7-2. This is the method of attacking by stratagem.
7-2. This is the attacking by method of stratagem.

8. It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two.
8. It the are if five ten war, one, one, if to to attack twice rule divide if two. enemy's forces as surround our him; to army to the our numerous, is to into in him;

9. If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him.
9. If if matched, equally we slightly we in avoid flee can numbers, enemy; unequal offer him. quite we battle; the in way, can from inferior can if every

10. Hence, though an obstinate fight may be made by a small force, in the end it must be captured by the larger force.
10. Hence, end be captured force, force. by the it must larger in the an obstinate fight may be made by a small though

11. Now the general is the bulwark of the State; if the bulwark is complete at all points; the State will be strong; if the bulwark is defective, the State will be weak.
11. Now the of at points; complete general the State strong; State; is be will is the if all the the bulwark weak. the will defective, bulwark is the State be bulwark if

12. There are three ways in which a ruler can bring misfortune upon his army:--
12. There ways are in can which three bring a army:-- his misfortune ruler upon

13-1. (1) By commanding the army to advance or to retreat, being ignorant of the fact that it cannot obey.
13-1. (1) obey. ignorant army or to the of to it that commanding retreat, being cannot By the fact advance

13-2. This is called hobbling the army.
13-2. This is the army. called hobbling

14-1. (2) By attempting to govern an army in the same way as he administers a kingdom, being ignorant of the conditions which obtain in an army.
14-1. (2) army same an way in By govern he the attempting which a ignorant to army. being of conditions obtain an as kingdom, the in administers

14-2. This causes restlessness in the soldier's minds.
14-2. This minds. soldier's the in restlessness causes

15-1. (3) By employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances.
15-1. (3) of the the officers discrimination, without principle of army of By adaptation ignorance his employing military to circumstances. through

15-2. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers.
15-2. This soldiers. the of confidence the shakes

16-1. But when the army is restless and distrustful, trouble is sure to come from the other feudal princes.
16-1. But is is restless trouble to come army feudal from and distrustful, the other sure when the princes.

16-2. This is simply bringing anarchy into the army, and flinging victory away.
16-2. This simply the army, is away. and flinging anarchy into victory bringing

17-1. Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
17-1. Thus He when knows when and who fight. to to fight win will not may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) we

17-2. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
17-2. (2) win He who handle knows will both how forces. inferior superior to and

17-3. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks.
17-3. (3) He army animated whose will is the its win same spirit all ranks. by throughout

17-4. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.
17-4. (4) unprepared. prepared who, take to win He enemy himself, waits will the

17-5. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.
17-5. (5) He has capacity who will military is the win not interfered by sovereign. and with

18-1. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
18-1. Hence result enemy battles. the a you and of need know the hundred If not know the yourself, fear saying: you

18-2. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.
18-2. If every but not for gained you yourself a will the enemy, also suffer victory you know defeat.

18-3. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
18-3. If neither you the you enemy know will nor battle. every succumb yourself, in
