Lv3-swap
VI. WEAK POINTS AND STRONG
VI. WEAK POINTS AND STRONG


1. Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted.
1. Sun exhausted. the is fight; field the coming is will of the in second first and field to enemy, Tzu has in and the hasten whoever be to battle said: Whoever fresh arrive will for the awaits

2. Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him.
2. Therefore the his enemy, will clever on allow the combatant not does will imposes on enemy's imposed to him. but the be

3. By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.
3. By holding he his accord; of out or, by he cause impossible damage, to advantages can can own enemy make it near. to inflicting for to approach the enemy draw him, the

4. If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him; if well supplied with food, he can starve him out; if quietly encamped, he can force him to move.
4. If is taking him; with well his him he encamped, ease, him starve harass the can out; can can supplied quietly move. enemy if he force to he if food,

5. Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected.
5. Appear expected. swiftly the hasten to places to enemy are you points defend; march not at which where must

6. An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not.
6. An it great distances if through country march is where without distress, the enemy marches army may not.

7-1. You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.
7-1. You of are attacks if attack can undefended. only you succeeding in places which be your sure

7-2. You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.
7-2. You safety be if you positions can attacked. hold only of your that cannot ensure defense the

8. Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.
8. Hence opponent does what to he know defense and not in attack. is defend; attack opponent in not whose what whose skillful that does general know is to skillful

9-1. O divine art of subtlety and secrecy!
9-1. O secrecy! and subtlety of art divine

9-2. Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible; and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands.
9-2. Through enemy's through hands. the in hence you fate we inaudible; you our learn can be invisible, and hold we to

10. You may advance and be absolutely irresistible, if you make for the enemy's weak points; you may retire and be safe from pursuit if your movements are more rapid than those of the enemy.
10. You may you if and the be you safe be for if pursuit more advance of your absolutely enemy's weak are from irresistible, than rapid make points; movements those retire may enemy. the and

11-1. If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an engagement even though he be sheltered behind a high rampart and a deep ditch.
11-1. If enemy forced the to can we fight, engagement be wish rampart though sheltered to ditch. be behind high and deep an he a a even

11-2. All we need do is attack some other place that he will be obliged to relieve.
11-2. All we attack other is need some that to do he will obliged relieve. place be

12-1. If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground.
12-1. If can merely from the though out our even traced to ground. the us fight, be of the we on encampment lines we prevent do enemy not engaging wish

12-2. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way.
12-2. All do we is odd to need and throw way. his unaccountable something in

13. By discovering the enemy's dispositions and remaining invisible ourselves, we can keep our forces concentrated, while the enemy's must be divided.
13. By the invisible divided. while must keep ourselves, enemy's our we discovering be enemy's forces and remaining can concentrated, the dispositions

14-1. We can form a single united body, while the enemy must split up into fractions.
14-1. We the enemy up into must split fractions. can form a single united body, while

14-2. Hence there will be a whole pitted against separate parts of a whole, which means that we shall be many to the enemy's few.
14-2. Hence will against a separate there parts whole of be a pitted whole, means we be to enemy's which shall the that few. many

15. And if we are able thus to attack an inferior force with a superior one, our opponents will be in dire straits.
15. And if thus inferior to we attack superior an are a with opponents able dire our in will straits. force one, be

16. The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points; and his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionately few.
16. The be different made spot known; possible for where then and the we enemy against will intend have forces a to several at his fight distributed thus the must have to any not be in numbers to given proportionately shall will at directions, prepare attack points; being many we face point few.

17-1. For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear; should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van; should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right; should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left.
17-1. For strengthen rear, his left, van, should he will rear; will his his weaken his he should he his right; strengthen his strengthen weaken should will should his the he will van; enemy weaken strengthen he left. right, weaken he his he

17-2. If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.
17-2. If reinforcements sends everywhere will he weak. he be everywhere,

18. Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; numerical strength, from compelling our adversary to make these preparations against us.
18. Numerical weakness to attacks; prepare comes against compelling possible from from strength, to having against adversary preparations make us. numerical our these

19. Knowing the place and the time of the coming battle, we may concentrate from the greatest distances in order to fight.
19. Knowing distances the fight. greatest order may coming in concentrate battle, the to and from time of we the place the

20-1. But if neither time nor place be known, then the left wing will be impotent to succor the right, the right equally impotent to succor the left, the van unable to relieve the rear, or the rear to support the van.
20-1. But rear to van. the support wing then the will the succor unable right the succor relieve van the the rear, if be time the place equally left to right, known, left, the or to nor be impotent impotent to neither

20-2. How much more so if the furthest portions of the army are anything under a hundred LI apart, and even the nearest are separated by several LI!
20-2. How army separated a nearest and several are even LI! so LI hundred by if the apart, anything the furthest portions of the much are more under

21-1. Though according to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our own in number, that shall advantage them nothing in the matter of victory.
21-1. Though to of estimate Yueh according exceed the our my own soldiers in that advantage nothing the of number, them matter shall victory. in

21-2. I say then that victory can be achieved.
21-2. I say then can be that victory achieved.

22-1. Though the enemy be stronger in numbers, we may prevent him from fighting.
22-1. Though fighting. in stronger prevent may be the from numbers, we enemy him

22-2. Scheme so as to discover his plans and the likelihood of their success.
22-2. Scheme success. his discover likelihood the to so their plans and as of

23-1. Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity.
23-1. Rouse of or inactivity. his activity him, and learn the principle

23-2. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots.
23-2. Force spots. so himself, out find reveal him vulnerable as to to his

24. Carefully compare the opposing army with your own, so that you may know where strength is superabundant and where it is deficient.
24. Carefully compare with that your the own, where so opposing know may superabundant army is is it and deficient. you strength where

25. In making tactical dispositions, the highest pitch you can attain is to conceal them; conceal your dispositions, and you will be safe from the prying of the subtlest spies, from the machinations of the wisest brains.
25. In making is highest be attain pitch them; from and conceal safe prying of the from the the conceal dispositions, spies, to can will the subtlest dispositions, brains. of your tactical machinations wisest the you you

26. How victory may be produced for them out of the enemy's own tactics-- that is what the multitude cannot comprehend.
26. How for be that produced the of what tactics-- out the victory multitude own them may is cannot comprehend. enemy's

27. All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.
27. All is out of none evolved. which victory the strategy is can see can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what men
28. Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
28. Do methods by the but circumstances. infinite variety be regulated of let your repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, not

29. Military tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards.
29. Military water; like away unto its in high runs water places tactics and course for are from hastens downwards. natural

30. So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak.
30. So is way is what and to the is strike to avoid at what strong in war, weak.

31. Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing.
31. Water course according ground flows; which to his soldier to the he out the shapes works victory foe of it relation facing. its in the whom is nature over the

32. Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions.
32. Therefore, just no shape, retains as constant in constant water warfare there no conditions. so are

33. He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain.
33. He who tactics his in can relation succeed to modify thereby and may his heaven-born winning, a be captain. opponent in called

34-1. The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always equally predominant; the four seasons make way for each other in turn.
34-1. The four way for equally turn. each other seasons make in predominant; the elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always five

34-2. There are short days and long; the moon has its periods of waning and waxing.
34-2. There has its waning and periods of waxing. are short days and long; the moon
