Lv3-swap
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE

1-1. Sun Tzu said: There are five ways of attacking with fire.
1-1. Sun ways with fire. of attacking Tzu said: There are five

1-2. The first is to burn soldiers in their camp; the second is to burn stores; the third is to burn baggage trains; the fourth is to burn arsenals and magazines; the fifth is to hurl dropping fire amongst the enemy.
1-2. The to stores; burn is soldiers second the burn burn third is and trains; camp; to the magazines; to to is amongst to the hurl their baggage the first fourth in fifth is enemy. the is burn arsenals dropping fire

2-1. In order to carry out an attack, we must have means available.
2-1. In to attack, we order available. must have out an means carry

2-2. The material for raising fire should always be kept in readiness.
2-2. The always in readiness. be kept material for raising fire should

3. There is a proper season for making attacks with fire, and special days for starting a conflagration.
3. There season a with fire, days is conflagration. special and for making for starting a attacks proper

4. The proper season is when the weather is very dry; the special days are those when the moon is in the constellations of the Sieve, the Wall, the Wing or the Cross-bar; for these four are all days of rising wind.
4. The all when wind. the of special very the days moon the or the dry; Sieve, Cross-bar; Wing in for these proper are is are the constellations the days is is Wall, rising four the when weather those of the season

5-1. In attacking with fire, one should be prepared to meet five possible developments: 6.
5-1. In fire, attacking one to should with meet be 6. developments: five prepared possible

5-2. (1) When fire breaks out inside to enemy's camp, respond at once with an attack from without.
5-2. (1) out from camp, respond with When without. once at inside to an attack fire enemy's breaks

7. (2) If there is an outbreak of fire, but the enemy's soldiers remain quiet, bide your time and do not attack.
7. (2) time fire, attack. your do soldiers but and remain the If not is quiet, outbreak of enemy's bide there an

8. (3) When the force of the flames has reached its height, follow it up with an attack, if that is practicable; if not, stay where you are.
8. (3) height, stay with if that you not, is are. force attack, an where of practicable; if it the flames has reached its When follow the up

9. (4) If it is possible to make an assault with fire from without, do not wait for it to break out within, but deliver your attack at a favorable moment.
9. (4) is possible fire not without, to break for deliver make a to with If it out attack assault do but moment. it within, your at favorable an from wait

10-1. (5) When you start a fire, be to windward of it.
10-1. (5) be of it. to windward When you start a fire,

10-2. Do not attack from the leeward.
10-2. Do not the leeward. attack from

11. A wind that rises in the daytime lasts long, but a night breeze soon falls.
11. A long, but breeze soon a night falls. wind that rises in the daytime lasts

12. In every army, the five developments connected with fire must be known, the movements of the stars calculated, and a watch kept for the proper days.
12. In connected must developments be with every five the fire army, kept of calculated, the days. stars and watch for proper known, the a the movements

13. Hence those who use fire as an aid to the attack show intelligence; those who use water as an aid to the attack gain an accession of strength.
13. Hence aid who those intelligence; to use attack who accession fire show water aid as strength. an gain an use to attack an of the those as the

14. By means of water, an enemy may be intercepted, but not robbed of all his belongings.
14. By means enemy be an of may but his water, not robbed all belongings. intercepted, of

15. Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise; for the result is waste of time and general stagnation.
15. Unhappy of general to without and fate attacks the spirit win the of of is stagnation. for his battles cultivating result is one who waste enterprise; succeed in time and the his tries

16. Hence the saying: The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources.
16. Hence enlightened his plans well good the resources. the ahead; ruler lays general cultivates saying: his The

17. Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.
17. Move there gained; be the unless to critical. is fight not something is position unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless not

18. No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.
18. No should field troops merely ruler to into gratify put his the own no should a simply of spleen; fight out general pique. battle

19. If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, stay where you are.
19. If it advantage, a your is make move; you to if not, where are. forward stay

20. Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.
20. Anger content. to change be may time may by gladness; vexation in succeeded

21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.
21. But kingdom destroyed has can a never once come that again been into nor the ever brought to being; dead back can life. be

22-1. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution.
22-1. Hence caution. heedful, is general good ruler the of and the enlightened full

22-2. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact.
22-2. This way is to at keep the peace a intact. army and country an

