Lv3-swap
VII. MANEUVERING
VII. MANEUVERING

1. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his commands from the sovereign.
1. Sun sovereign. the war, commands his In Tzu the general receives said: from

2. Having collected an army and concentrated his forces, he must blend and harmonize the different elements thereof before pitching his camp.
2. Having thereof forces, camp. elements pitching and he before harmonize must collected his army the concentrated his blend different an and

3-1. After that, comes tactical maneuvering, than which there is nothing more difficult.
3-1. After comes which there that, difficult. is nothing maneuvering, than more tactical

3-2. The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain.
3-2. The maneuvering into the devious direct, difficulty gain. the into consists in and misfortune of turning tactical

4. Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, after enticing the enemy out of the way, and though starting after him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artifice of DEVIATION.
4. Thus, to the and him, enticing circuitous of contrive though out to reach the long shows goal artifice the a him, enemy after after knowledge before and DEVIATION. the way, take of of to starting route,

5. Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; with an undisciplined multitude, most dangerous.
5. Maneuvering an with an with dangerous. undisciplined multitude, is advantageous; most army

6-1. If you set a fully equipped army in march in order to snatch an advantage, the chances are that you will be too late.
6-1. If set in fully march you in equipped order a to army snatch advantage, chances that will too an are be the late. you

6-2. On the other hand, to detach a flying column for the purpose involves the sacrifice of its baggage and stores.
6-2. On detach hand, the to for column of involves flying its the baggage purpose a other sacrifice and stores. the

7. Thus, if you order your men to roll up their buff-coats, and make forced marches without halting day or night, covering double the usual distance at a stretch, doing a hundred LI in order to wrest an advantage, the leaders of all your three divisions will fall into the hands of the enemy.
7. Thus, an stretch, of advantage, divisions usual the leaders enemy. a your all of double fall three the LI covering will distance at doing into in order if hands order night, men the roll wrest their buff-coats, and make forced marches without halting day or the a hundred to you your to up

8. The stronger men will be in front, the jaded ones will fall behind, and on this plan only one-tenth of your army will reach its destination.
8. The front, ones in will the stronger be behind, jaded men army on only will destination. plan one-tenth your will its fall this of reach and

9. If you march fifty LI in order to outmaneuver the enemy, you will lose the leader of your first division, and only half your force will reach the goal.
9. If outmaneuver your will the of will and leader force in goal. your the order half division, enemy, to reach only first you the march you fifty lose LI

10. If you march thirty LI with the same object, two-thirds of your army will arrive.
10. If object, two-thirds army will of your arrive. you march thirty LI with the same

11. We may take it then that an army without its baggage-train is lost; without provisions it is lost; without bases of supply it is lost.
11. We lost; lost; is supply of it lost. is without bases provisions without it take it then that an army without its baggage-train is may

12. We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors.
12. We acquainted with of our the designs neighbors. cannot enter into alliances until we are

13. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country-- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.
13. We to and on face we fit the the country-- the forests, its precipices, are swamps. and march unless of its pitfalls lead an and mountains are familiar its marshes not with army

14. We shall be unable to turn natural advantage to account unless we make use of local guides.
14. We to local to account make shall guides. we unless turn natural use of be advantage unable

15. In war, practice dissimulation, and you will succeed.
15. In war, practice you will dissimulation, and succeed.

16. Whether to concentrate or to divide your troops, must be decided by circumstances.
16. Whether circumstances. divide to be must or to by your troops, concentrate decided

17. Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest.
17. Let be your that your of rapidity compactness the forest. the that wind, of

18. In raiding and plundering be like fire, in immovability like a mountain.
18. In and fire, in raiding mountain. immovability like be like a plundering

19. Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.
19. Let dark a night, and move, your thunderbolt. you when and impenetrable fall like plans as be

20. When you plunder a countryside, let the spoil be divided amongst your men; when you capture new territory, cut it up into allotments for the benefit of the soldiery.
20. When be for men; the new benefit up capture the let soldiery. territory, you the allotments it amongst spoil of into cut you divided plunder your a when countryside,

21. Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.
21. Ponder and deliberate make a before you move.

22-1. He will conquer who has learnt the artifice of deviation.
22-1. He who conquer artifice the learnt deviation. will of has

22-2. Such is the art of maneuvering.
22-2. Such is of maneuvering. the art

23-1. The Book of Army Management says: On the field of battle, the spoken word does not carry far enough: hence the institution of gongs and drums.
23-1. The On of says: battle, the Book Management spoken field of institution does far Army drums. carry enough: the of and the not hence gongs word

23-2. Nor can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough: hence the institution of banners and flags.
23-2. Nor hence the banners and institution of flags. can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough:

24. Gongs and drums, banners and flags, are means whereby the ears and eyes of the host may be focused on one particular point.
24. Gongs the be focused and point. on one host may particular eyes of drums, banners and flags, are means whereby the ears and

25-1. The host thus forming a single united body, is it impossible either for the brave to advance alone, or for the cowardly to retreat alone.
25-1. The for alone, advance cowardly the to alone. retreat or for brave the to thus forming a single united body, is it impossible either host

25-2. This is the art of handling large masses of men.
25-2. This art the masses large handling men. is of of

26. In night-fighting, then, make much use of signal-fires and drums, and in fighting by day, of flags and banners, as a means of influencing the ears and eyes of your army.
26. In of your and eyes day, night-fighting, banners, and of signal-fires and as army. then, fighting means a drums, of influencing flags make and ears the in much by use of

27. A whole army may be robbed of its spirit; a commander-in-chief may be robbed of his presence of mind.
27. A mind. may be its spirit; robbed be robbed presence his army a commander-in-chief of whole may of of

28. Now a soldier's spirit is keenest in the morning; by noonday it has begun to flag; and in the evening, his mind is bent only on returning to camp.
28. Now morning; bent has to and on his flag; only keenest camp. in to in is evening, noonday the returning mind the a by soldier's it spirit begun is

29-1. A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return.
29-1. A it is sluggish keen, return. and inclined when it to but attacks general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is clever

29-2. This is the art of studying moods.
29-2. This moods. studying of art the is

30. Disciplined and calm, to await the appearance of disorder and hubbub amongst the enemy:-- this is the art of retaining self-possession.
30. Disciplined the of self-possession. is of amongst disorder art the and and retaining to enemy:-- the appearance hubbub this calm, await

31. To be near the goal while the enemy is still far from it, to wait at ease while the enemy is toiling and struggling, to be well-fed while the enemy is famished:-- this is the art of husbanding one's strength.
31. To the wait goal to while far still well-fed to ease while the toiling is be is enemy the is this husbanding it, one's the enemy is at be struggling, the famished:-- near strength. and from enemy while art of

32. To refrain from intercepting an enemy whose banners are in perfect order, to refrain from attacking an army drawn up in calm and confident array:-- this is the art of studying circumstances.
32. To refrain whose from an refrain from army drawn calm are this in of intercepting banners and attacking perfect confident array:-- circumstances. an up is order, to the art studying enemy in

33. It is a military axiom not to advance uphill against the enemy, nor to oppose him when he comes downhill.
33. It not military to axiom against uphill him nor advance when is he enemy, to a oppose comes downhill. the

34. Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight; do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen.
34. Do not who flight; enemy pursue simulates not is an attack soldiers temper keen. do whose

35-1. Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy.
35-1. Do not swallow by the bait offered enemy.

35-2. Do not interfere with an army that is returning home.
35-2. Do with interfere is that army home. not returning an

36-1. When you surround an army, leave an outlet free.
36-1. When army, outlet free. leave an surround an you

36-2. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.
36-2. Do not press foe too a desperate hard.

37. Such is the art of warfare.
37. Such is of warfare. the art
