Lv3-swap
XIII. THE USE OF SPIES
XIII. THE USE OF SPIES

1-1. Sun Tzu said: Raising a host of a hundred thousand men and marching them great distances entails heavy loss on the people and a drain on the resources of the State.
1-1. Sun of the men resources great Tzu loss heavy and a the on State. said: marching people the thousand of a entails Raising hundred on drain and a them host distances

1-2. The daily expenditure will amount to a thousand ounces of silver.
1-2. The a of silver. thousand ounces daily expenditure will amount to

1-3. There will be commotion at home and abroad, and men will drop down exhausted on the highways.
1-3. There at the and men down will highways. drop will home and exhausted on be abroad, commotion

1-4. As many as seven hundred thousand families will be impeded in their labor.
1-4. As labor. thousand hundred impeded be seven many their families will as in

2-1. Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day.
2-1. Hostile day. victory each years, striving is which other a in may for the single armies face decided for

2-2. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the enemy's condition simply because one grudges the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of inhumanity.
2-2. This being ignorance grudges outlay one so, of a of the and ounces height to of silver the condition in honors inhumanity. remain hundred emoluments, simply because is the of in enemy's

3. One who acts thus is no leader of men, no present help to his sovereign, no master of victory.
3. One victory. help is of men, his to no master no acts no present of who thus sovereign, leader

4. Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is foreknowledge.
4. Thus, and beyond things ordinary of achieve foreknowledge. is the reach and conquer, men, enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike what

5. Now this foreknowledge cannot be elicited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any deductive calculation.
5. Now elicited cannot from be cannot it nor inductively spirits; by this any obtained from foreknowledge experience, deductive calculation. be

6. Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can only be obtained from other men.
6. Knowledge the only be of men. obtained from dispositions can other enemy's

7. Hence the use of spies, of whom there are five classes: (1) Local spies; (2) inward spies; (3) converted spies; (4) doomed spies; (5) surviving spies.
7. Hence whom five of classes: there the spies, Local are use doomed (2) (3) of spies. spies; converted (4) spies; surviving (1) inward spies; (5) spies;

8-1. When these five kinds of spy are all at work, none can discover the secret system.
8-1. When these spy all of five are work, secret kinds none can the system. at discover

8-2. This is called "divine manipulation of the threads."
8-2. This is called of the "divine manipulation threads."

8-3. It is the sovereign's most precious faculty.
8-3. It faculty. precious most sovereign's the is

9. Having local spies means employing the services of the inhabitants of a district.
9. Having district. the employing inhabitants the means local a services of spies of

10. Having inward spies, making use of officials of the enemy.
10. Having making spies, of officials of enemy. inward the use

11. Having converted spies, getting hold of the enemy's spies and using them for our own purposes.
11. Having converted of enemy's hold spies, the and own getting using them our purposes. spies for

12. Having doomed spies, doing certain things openly for purposes of deception, and allowing our spies to know of them and report them to the enemy.
12. Having allowing of know them report to enemy. the them and spies our to spies, doing certain things openly for purposes of deception, and doomed

13. Surviving spies, finally, are those who bring back news from the enemy's camp.
13. Surviving camp. who those from news are spies, enemy's bring back finally, the

14-1. Hence it is that which none in the whole army are more intimate relations to be maintained than with spies.
14-1. Hence none that relations which army whole be intimate the maintained it than more in is to with spies. are

14-2. None should be more liberally rewarded.
14-2. None should liberally rewarded. be more

14-3. In no other business should greater secrecy be preserved.
14-3. In should be preserved. greater secrecy other business no

15. Spies cannot be usefully employed without a certain intuitive sagacity.
15. Spies usefully be certain a without sagacity. cannot intuitive employed

16. They cannot be properly managed without benevolence and straightforwardness.
16. They managed and straightforwardness. without benevolence be properly cannot

17. Without subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make certain of the truth of their reports.
17. Without certain of of their the truth reports. subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make

18. Be subtle! be subtle! and use your spies for every kind of business.
18. Be business. use and every for subtle! subtle! of your spies be kind

19. If a secret piece of news is divulged by a spy before the time is ripe, he must be put to death together with the man to whom the secret was told.
19. If a is is he time secret must be death by man to secret piece divulged together ripe, spy with the told. of put to before the whom the was news a

20-1. Whether the object be to crush an army, to storm a city, or to assassinate an individual, it is always necessary to begin by finding out the names of the attendants, the aides-de-camp, and door-keepers and sentries of the general in command.
20-1. Whether to individual, crush the an or army, of city, is an attendants, always a by aides-de-camp, names necessary the door-keepers and assassinate general the the begin in object to to to be the finding of command. sentries storm it out and

20-2. Our spies must be commissioned to ascertain these.
20-2. Our spies must to ascertain be commissioned these.

21-1. The enemy's spies who have come to spy on us must be sought out, tempted with bribes, led away and comfortably housed.
21-1. The enemy's come us to spies spy out, on who sought be bribes, have comfortably with and led housed. must tempted away

21-2. Thus they will become converted spies and available for our service.
21-2. Thus and our service. available for they will become converted spies

22. It is through the information brought by the converted spy that we are able to acquire and employ local and inward spies.
22. It is brought spy by through the able converted the are we and information inward acquire and employ spies. that to local

23. It is owing to his information, again, that we can cause the doomed spy to carry false tidings to the enemy.
23. It false that enemy. carry to the we tidings doomed can is the to spy information, again, cause to owing his

24. Lastly, it is by his information that the surviving spy can be used on appointed occasions.
24. Lastly, it information the his is that spy appointed by can be on occasions. surviving used

25-1. The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy.
25-1. The in converted varieties from the end knowledge this derived, all instance, can spy. and knowledge be only five the in and aim its first the is of of spying enemy;

25-2. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality.
25-2. Hence essential it that be the is treated converted liberality. utmost with spy the

26-1. Of old, the rise of the Yin dynasty was due to I Chih who had served under the Hsia.
26-1. Of Hsia. I of dynasty was who Chih the under served the due to the old, rise had Yin

26-2. Likewise, the rise of the Chou dynasty was due to Lu Ya who had served under the Yin.
26-2. Likewise, to the Chou due Ya who of the had dynasty was served under Lu the rise Yin.

27-1. Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for purposes of spying and thereby they achieve great results.
27-1. Hence only the general the will enlightened army intelligence spying ruler achieve the wise it of for thereby the use of results. is purposes and they great and who highest

27-2. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army's ability to move.
27-2. Spies important to because on an are move. depends them element in army's ability a water, most

