Lv3-swap
V. ENERGY
V. ENERGY

1. Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
1. Sun The control the the principle of men: of a a up few is Tzu a it of force as merely numbers. said: is question dividing their large same control

2. Fighting with a large army under your command is nowise different from fighting with a small one: it is merely a question of instituting signs and signals.
2. Fighting different instituting a question is and of merely signals. large one: small signs army a it fighting under your command is nowise with from a with

3. To ensure that your whole host may withstand the brunt of the enemy's attack and remain unshaken-- this is effected by maneuvers direct and indirect.
3. To enemy's this unshaken-- maneuvers by remain indirect. and is effected and attack direct that your whole host may withstand the brunt of the ensure

4. That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg-- this is effected by the science of weak points and strong.
4. That may a army grindstone be the your against like impact of egg-- effected of strong. is by science weak and dashed this the points an

5. In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory.
5. In methods needed in battle, victory. order to will be secure but indirect fighting, the direct method may be used for joining all

6. Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhaustible as Heaven and Earth, unending as the flow of rivers and streams; like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more.
6. Indirect applied, of are end inexhaustible unending Earth, to flow and streams; anew; and and but the like like they seasons, return the once pass Heaven sun rivers tactics, they as four efficiently more. moon, as the begin away to

7. There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard.
7. There not notes, than yet are the five combinations more of musical these give to melodies can be five more ever rise heard. than

8. There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen.
8. There primary yellow, five red, colors are than and (blue, not than yet they more seen. combination produce hues can been white, in more ever black),

9. There are not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, bitter), yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted.
9. There bitter), yield them can than of tasted. be more flavors combinations yet ever not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, are

10. In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack-- the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers.
10. In methods to direct of yet endless combination indirect; an more maneuvers. these the than rise in attack-- two series give two battle, of there the are and not

11-1. The direct and the indirect lead on to each other in turn.
11-1. The and on to direct turn. each other indirect lead in the

11-2. It is like moving in a circle-- you never come to an end.
11-2. It end. a in come never moving is an circle-- you like to

11-3. Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination?
11-3. Who can exhaust of their the possibilities combination?

12. The onset of troops is like the rush of a torrent which will even roll stones along in its course.
12. The like troops even is a of stones will rush along onset in which the of roll its course. torrent

13. The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.
13. The strike well-timed victim. to destroy falcon swoop and which of quality its decision enables like the a it of is

14. Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision.
14. Therefore his onset, in his and prompt decision. the good fighter will be terrible in

15. Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision, to the releasing of a trigger.
15. Energy to a a crossbow; the may trigger. to decision, the bending releasing of be of likened

16. Amid the turmoil and tumult of battle, there may be seeming disorder and yet no real disorder at all; amid confusion and chaos, your array may be without head or tail, yet it will be proof against defeat.
16. Amid turmoil and and chaos, there may disorder array real no amid be your battle, without head yet disorder proof tail, against seeming be it at all; may be will tumult of the and confusion defeat. yet or

17. Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength.
17. Simulated strength. simulated discipline, simulated courage; perfect disorder postulates fear postulates postulates weakness

18. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions.
18. Hiding dispositions. of cloak a simply is subdivision; of a concealing presupposes energy; latent of with strength be under order weakness disorder a courage to fund show is effected beneath the of tactical by timidity masking question

19-1. Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act.
19-1. Thus one at on keeping who the deceitful enemy is maintains move to skillful will according enemy which act. the appearances, the

19-2. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it.
19-2. He that something, snatch may enemy it. sacrifices at the

20. By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him.
20. By of he lies with him. in wait picked men for a body out baits, he keeps him on the march; then holding

21-1. The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals.
21-1. The energy, to the combined does not looks from require effect of too much and clever combatant individuals.

21-2. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and utilize combined energy.
21-2. Hence energy. out pick and men to his combined the right ability utilize

22-1. When he utilizes combined energy, his fighting men become as it were like unto rolling logs or stones.
22-1. When as energy, his become were like combined or unto fighting men rolling logs it he utilizes stones.

22-2. For it is the nature of a log or stone to remain motionless on level ground, and to move when on a slope; if four-cornered, to come to a standstill, but if round-shaped, to go rolling down.
22-2. For down. remain nature a or log motionless if and on on to four-cornered, of a to round-shaped, ground, it standstill, a stone level if slope; to but to is the move rolling go when come to

23-1. Thus the energy developed by good fighting men is as the momentum of a round stone rolled down a mountain thousands of feet in height.
23-1. Thus of down rolled of thousands stone height. in a mountain round a feet energy developed by good fighting men is as the momentum the

23-2. So much on the subject of energy.
23-2. So energy. of subject the on much
