Lv3-swap
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS
VIII. VARIATION TACTICS IN

1. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his commands from the sovereign, collects his army and concentrates his forces.
1. Sun the In collects war, commands his army sovereign, receives and Tzu concentrates the general said: his his forces. from

2-1. When in difficult country, do not encamp.
2-1. When encamp. not do country, difficult in

2-2. In country where high roads intersect, join hands with your allies.
2-2. In join your allies. hands with country where high roads intersect,

2-3. Do not linger in dangerously isolated positions.
2-3. Do positions. isolated dangerously in linger not

2-4. In hemmed-in situations, you must resort to stratagem.
2-4. In hemmed-in situations, resort to you must stratagem.

2-5. In desperate position, you must fight.
2-5. In desperate must fight. position, you

3. There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must be not attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.
3. There roads which be besieged, must not towns which be be must not commands which which contested, obeyed. attacked, armies of must followed, be sovereign not which not must the are positions be must not

4. The general who thoroughly understands the advantages that accompany variation of tactics knows how to handle his troops.
4. The variation understands the accompany tactics knows thoroughly his how advantages that to handle of general who troops.

5. The general who does not understand these, may be well acquainted with the configuration of the country, yet he will not be able to turn his knowledge to practical account.
5. The does not acquainted of the understand will country, to these, to he well general yet not his be configuration able account. who be turn knowledge practical may with the

6. So, the student of war who is unversed in the art of war of varying his plans, even though he be acquainted with the Five Advantages, will fail to make the best use of his men.
6. So, the art who be the is of with even war acquainted Five Advantages, war make will of varying of to of in he the fail plans, men. use his student best his the though unversed

7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.
7. Hence in plans, of leader's the considerations and blended wise of disadvantage be together. advantage will

8. If our expectation of advantage be tempered in this way, we may succeed in accomplishing the essential part of our schemes.
8. If essential in schemes. the of may this part succeed way, our our of in be tempered we accomplishing expectation advantage

9. If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune.
9. If, the midst hand, of on difficulties in we other are the always to an we extricate from ready advantage, ourselves seize misfortune. may

10. Reduce the hostile chiefs by inflicting damage on them; and make trouble for them, and keep them constantly engaged; hold out specious allurements, and make them rush to any given point.
10. Reduce damage given make to and the engaged; constantly allurements, on rush hold point. hostile for specious out and any and them chiefs them; them make trouble by them, inflicting keep

11. The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable.
11. The the our have of unassailable. not our not that readiness of but coming, the own on him; receive chance fact attacking, but art we war not us made rely likelihood on position enemy's the to on his rather of teaches to not the on

12. There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.
12. There (1) be Recklessness, five which hasty leads dangerous to by destruction; faults (2) (3) cowardice, which which (4) leads may a which can affect insults; delicacy of a sensitive to over-solicitude general: which are worry trouble. is (5) men, to honor for and exposes to capture; temper, provoked a which shame; his him

13. These are the five besetting sins of a general, ruinous to the conduct of war.
13. These general, ruinous conduct of to the war. are the five besetting sins of a

14-1. When an army is overthrown and its leader slain, the cause will surely be found among these five dangerous faults.
14-1. When and is be overthrown the slain, among surely leader these an five will its army found dangerous faults. cause

14-2. Let them be a subject of meditation.
14-2. Let meditation. of subject a be them

