Lv3-swap
II. WAGING WAR
II. WAGING WAR

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand li, the expenditure at home and at the front, including entertainment of guests, small items such as glue and paint, and sums spent on chariots and armor, will reach the total of a thousand ounces of silver per day.
1-1. Sun li, small home on front, including guests, and as such and will chariots the reach the a glue silver of expenditure of entertainment thousand and paint, armor, of ounces and at per spent sums day. said: total at items In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand Tzu the

1-2. Such is the cost of raising an army of 100,000 men.
1-2. Such an 100,000 men. army of is the cost of raising

2-1. When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardor will be damped.
2-1. When engage victory actual is you long fighting, in in coming, if then weapons grow and ardor be men's dull will will damped. their

2-2. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust your strength.
2-2. If lay town, you you strength. will exhaust to a your siege

3. Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain.
3. Again, the is protracted, of will not campaign the be the resources equal to State if the strain.

4-1. Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity.
4-1. Now, strength advantage treasure to will your take spring extremity. weapons other spent, of are up chieftains and dulled, your ardor damped, your when exhausted your your

4-2. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue.
4-2. Then to avert that must the consequences ensue. no man, however wise, will be able

5. Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.
5. Thus, delays. has heard haste in been never of with associated we war, cleverness long though have seen stupid

6. There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.
6. There no country having is warfare. benefited from of a prolonged instance

7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.
7. It only acquainted who with is the is evils one of thoroughly war can understand profitable of it that the carrying thoroughly on. way

8. The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice.
8. The not than levy, neither supply-wagons skillful twice. his are raise a loaded more soldier second does

9-1. Bring war material with you from home, but forage on the enemy.
9-1. Bring material home, but war enemy. forage on you from the with

9-2. Thus the army will have food enough for its needs.
9-2. Thus will army for enough food needs. the its have

10-1. Poverty of the State exchequer causes an army to be maintained by contributions from a distance.
10-1. Poverty of causes army exchequer the an be a State maintained by from distance. to contributions

10-2. Contributing to maintain an army at a distance causes the people to be impoverished.
10-2. Contributing an to army causes at maintain the a impoverished. be people distance to

11. On the other hand, the proximity of an army causes prices to go up; and high prices cause the people's substance to be drained away.
11. On go cause prices to substance high away. drained the people's and up; be other hand, the proximity of an army causes prices to the

12. When their substance is drained away, the peasantry will be afflicted by heavy exactions.
12. When is their drained will away, substance be the exactions. heavy afflicted peasantry by

13,14. With this loss of substance and exhaustion of strength, the homes of the people will be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their income will be dissipated; while government expenses for broken chariots, worn-out horses, breast-plates and helmets, bows and arrows, spears and shields, protective mantles, draught-oxen and heavy wagons, will amount to four-tenths of its total revenue.
13,14. With helmets, chariots, spears and mantles, government wagons, protective four-tenths horses, revenue. draught-oxen shields, dissipated; amount heavy and and its will and for be to expenses bows worn-out of this will of total and arrows, of strength, the homes of the people will be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their income while broken breast-plates loss substance exhaustion

15-1. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy.
15-1. Hence wise point of a enemy. foraging on makes a the general

15-2. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store.
15-2. One to to own, own single from provender a twenty provisions store. picul likewise is equivalent his of equivalent one's is of cartload twenty of one's the and enemy's

16. Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards.
16. Now our order in to men to be that have kill roused may from the rewards. advantage they enemy, there defeating enemy, must their must anger; be the

17-1. Therefore in chariot fighting, when ten or more chariots have been taken, those should be rewarded who took the first.
17-1. Therefore ten fighting, should when have chariots rewarded those more who in took taken, or chariot be the first. been

17-2. Our own flags should be substituted for those of the enemy, and the chariots mingled and used in conjunction with ours.
17-2. Our used those ours. and conjunction and of in the the own with should chariots substituted for enemy, mingled flags be

17-3. The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept.
17-3. The be and kept. kindly treated soldiers should captured

18. This is called, using the conquered foe to augment one's own strength.
18. This called, foe to is strength. augment one's the conquered own using

19. In war, then, let your great object be victory, not lengthy campaigns.
19. In then, object be war, campaigns. victory, not your great lengthy let

20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril.
20. Thus known in of the arbiter be fate, on whom armies the it in it peril. whether is the man nation shall that the be depends of the peace or may people's leader
