Lv3-swap
X. TERRAIN
X. TERRAIN

1. Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) entangling ground; (3) temporizing ground; (4) narrow passes; (5) precipitous heights; (6) positions at a great distance from the enemy.
1. Sun Tzu to distinguish ground; terrain, six Accessible narrow ground; (1) (4) (5) precipitous may at heights; from ground; We positions wit: of temporizing a (6) entangling enemy. distance (2) said: great the passes; (3) kinds

2. Ground which can be freely traversed by both sides is called accessible.
2. Ground can by both which accessible. sides is freely traversed called be

3-1. With regard to ground of this nature, be before the enemy in occupying the raised and sunny spots, and carefully guard your line of supplies.
3-1. With occupying spots, sunny your guard and supplies. of and carefully raised the line to ground of this nature, be before the enemy in regard

3-2. Then you will be able to fight with advantage.
3-2. Then able with advantage. to fight will be you

4. Ground which can be abandoned but is hard to re-occupy is called entangling.
4. Ground entangling. but abandoned re-occupy to be which called is hard can is

5-1. From a position of this sort, if the enemy is unprepared, you may sally forth and defeat him.
5-1. From is this sort, enemy you may of defeat sally if the forth and unprepared, a position him.

5-2. But if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and you fail to defeat him, then, return being impossible, disaster will ensue.
5-2. But if prepared and for the your defeat coming, enemy to fail return is will then, disaster being ensue. you him, impossible,

6. When the position is such that neither side will gain by making the first move, it is called temporizing ground.
6. When that is first such gain will it the side is the called making neither position move, temporizing ground. by

7. In a position of this sort, even though the enemy should offer us an attractive bait, it will be advisable not to stir forth, but rather to retreat, thus enticing the enemy in his turn; then, when part of his army has come out, we may deliver our attack with advantage.
7. In when rather army then, we to attack part of retreat, deliver his come advisable advantage. has be enticing stir out, to forth, the may turn; enemy position our this will even with the his should offer us an attractive bait, it not but thus in a of sort, though enemy

8. With regard to narrow passes, if you can occupy them first, let them be strongly garrisoned and await the advent of the enemy.
8. With strongly await the let enemy. advent of garrisoned and the them be to narrow passes, if you can occupy them first, regard

9. Should the army forestall you in occupying a pass, do not go after him if the pass is fully garrisoned, but only if it is weakly garrisoned.
9. Should not it if only fully weakly if garrisoned, garrisoned. forestall pass the is you but is after in occupying a pass, do the go army him

10. With regard to precipitous heights, if you are beforehand with your adversary, you should occupy the raised and sunny spots, and there wait for him to come up.
10. With are to regard you beforehand precipitous your occupy to heights, adversary, raised spots, if up. sunny for you the and wait him come with should and there

11. If the enemy has occupied them before you, do not follow him, but retreat and try to entice him away.
11. If them has retreat occupied not do try but you, to the entice him, before enemy and him away. follow

12. If you are situated at a great distance from the enemy, and the strength of the two armies is equal, it is not easy to provoke a battle, and fighting will be to your disadvantage.
12. If are the great equal, enemy, a of is is and not easy a situated will provoke disadvantage. strength from battle, two distance to fighting to the the be and you it your at armies

13-1. These six are the principles connected with Earth.
13-1. These six are connected with the principles Earth.

13-2. The general who has attained a responsible post must be careful to study them.
13-2. The has general attained must a who be responsible them. study careful post to

14-1. Now an army is exposed to six several calamities, not arising from natural causes, but from faults for which the general is responsible.
14-1. Now but for which from responsible. the general from faults is natural causes, army is exposed to six several calamities, not arising an

14-2. These are: (1) Flight; (2) insubordination; (3) collapse; (4) ruin; (5) disorganization; (6) rout.
14-2. These Flight; are: (2) (4) insubordination; (1) ruin; (3) rout. (6) (5) collapse; disorganization;

15. Other conditions being equal, if one force is hurled against another ten times its size, the result will be the flight of the former.
15. Other being is if hurled conditions against one another equal, ten force times size, result be flight the its will of the former. the

16-1. When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is insubordination.
16-1. When the too and are common strong officers is soldiers too weak, result insubordination. their the

16-2. When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is collapse.
16-2. When the strong the too officers and soldiers is are too weak, result collapse. common the

17. When the higher officers are angry and insubordinate, and on meeting the enemy give battle on their own account from a feeling of resentment, before the commander-in-chief can tell whether or not he is in a position to fight, the result is ruin.
17. When position own result can fight, give ruin. whether meeting from battle not account the of is commander-in-chief feeling or a in on higher to are resentment, and the and on their is before the he the officers angry insubordinate, enemy a tell

18. When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixes duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization.
18. When weak when and men, without not authority; the are are distinct; are no orders to in and fixes formed slovenly haphazard and is the result assigned utter general clear when duties is ranks officers the disorganization. manner, his there and a

19. When a general, unable to estimate the enemy's strength, allows an inferior force to engage a larger one, or hurls a weak detachment against a powerful one, and neglects to place picked soldiers in the front rank, the result must be rout.
19. When to larger estimate one, the force enemy's neglects inferior or a place hurls an against soldiers and a picked the front engage must a result detachment be general, to strength, weak unable to a the rout. rank, allows one, powerful in

20. These are six ways of courting defeat, which must be carefully noted by the general who has attained a responsible post.
20. These has which post. who a noted must attained by be are responsible ways the courting defeat, carefully general six of

21. The natural formation of the country is the soldier's best ally; but a power of estimating the adversary, of controlling the forces of victory, and of shrewdly calculating difficulties, dangers and distances, constitutes the test of a great general.
21. The a power general. victory, is best ally; of of estimating of calculating of the shrewdly dangers and adversary, test distances, formation but the the a controlling the of difficulties, country natural great soldier's forces and constitutes of the

22-1. He who knows these things, and in fighting puts his knowledge into practice, will win his battles.
22-1. He things, his puts his practice, who battles. into knowledge and in will win knows fighting these

22-2. He who knows them not, nor practices them, will surely be defeated.
22-2. He knows practices them, who defeated. will surely not, nor be them

23. If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight, even though the ruler forbid it; if fighting will not result in victory, then you must not fight even at the ruler's bidding.
23. If is you in fighting must result the not if fight, result in you sure even then bidding. though then must forbid victory, victory, fight the ruler even at not fighting will ruler's to it;

24. The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom.
24. The without the retreats protect whose advances to country and without for do the general kingdom. service fearing disgrace, his his sovereign, coveting fame is good only thought jewel of who is and

25. Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.
25. Regard your and valleys; upon deepest soldiers them as beloved will will own even as they sons, look you and they death. your your stand into the by you unto children, follow

26. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose.
26. If, useless to purpose. then any felt; make soldiers kind-hearted, your enforce be incapable, your disorder: to must and spoilt children; however, but are are but moreover, authority for commands; to your practical they quelling indulgent, unable unable of likened you

27. If we know that our own men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the enemy is not open to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
27. If men towards condition only are we enemy the to are gone is victory. know attack, open not a halfway attack, that that in have we to our but own unaware

28. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, but are unaware that our own men are not in a condition to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
28. If is towards but only our we not are to open gone in victory. know unaware condition a attack, halfway attack, men that to have we are the that enemy own

29. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, and also know that our men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the nature of the ground makes fighting impracticable, we have still gone only halfway towards victory.
29. If the are enemy the is know open of also a men ground condition and are fighting nature to makes we have our halfway we only but towards know that to attack, that the unaware gone victory. still attack, in that impracticable,

30. Hence the experienced soldier, once in motion, is never bewildered; once he has broken camp, he is never at a loss.
30. Hence is is loss. he at he never never has bewildered; the a soldier, broken in motion, once camp, experienced once

31. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, you may make your victory complete.
31. Hence the victory yourself, make not the if doubt; and enemy may you complete. saying: victory Heaven know know your know in If and you Earth, your you will know stand

