Lv4-swap
V. ENERGY
V.ENERGY

1. Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
1.of their is dividing as Sun a of is a of few numbers. Tzu same it men: force up merely control said: large question a the The principle control the

2. Fighting with a large army under your command is nowise different from fighting with a small one: it is merely a question of instituting signs and signals.
2.your with Fighting from command a nowise with signs large different small is army signals. it of under a merely question instituting and is fighting one: a

3. To ensure that your whole host may withstand the brunt of the enemy's attack and remain unshaken-- this is effected by maneuvers direct and indirect.
3.host the whole brunt may To your the withstand ensure by attack unshaken-- that indirect. remain this effected maneuvers and of and is direct enemy's

4. That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg-- this is effected by the science of weak points and strong.
4.a weak an science effected and of by strong. impact this egg-- points of the is dashed your army may be like That grindstone the against

5. In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory.
5.all may the be In used direct for fighting, joining method battle, indirect will needed order secure but be to methods victory. in

6. Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhaustible as Heaven and Earth, unending as the flow of rivers and streams; like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more.
6.away of more. end return unending Heaven to as and rivers anew; the and they the begin like four seasons, Indirect the efficiently pass are sun Earth, to streams; as but once they moon, applied, inexhaustible flow and like tactics,

7. There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard.
7.of to rise can than give heard. be more melodies five these ever are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations There

8. There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen.
8.yellow, can black), hues they been than produce seen. not in yet ever more more combination white, than five primary colors (blue, There red, are and

9. There are not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, bitter), yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted.
9.five (sour, than acrid, cardinal There more sweet, tastes are than yet them not tasted. of yield flavors can be salt, combinations more ever bitter),

10. In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack-- the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers.
10.there are of and the not two indirect; rise more series these methods In yet in an two direct give maneuvers. battle, combination to endless of than attack-- the

11-1. The direct and the indirect lead on to each other in turn.
11-1.turn. indirect the each to and The in lead on direct other

11-2. It is like moving in a circle-- you never come to an end.
11-2.like It moving you in is never a end. an come circle-- to

11-3. Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination?
11-3.the their combination? possibilities of can exhaust Who

12. The onset of troops is like the rush of a torrent which will even roll stones along in its course.
12.stones the course. roll in torrent rush along which of The its of will is like a even onset troops

13. The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.
13.The is swoop like quality the which well-timed of falcon a to decision its it destroy strike victim. of enables and

14. Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision.
14.Therefore will terrible fighter the be his his good onset, and in decision. in prompt

15. Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision, to the releasing of a trigger.
15.a likened to of decision, to be a the the bending releasing of crossbow; Energy may trigger.

16. Amid the turmoil and tumult of battle, there may be seeming disorder and yet no real disorder at all; amid confusion and chaos, your array may be without head or tail, yet it will be proof against defeat.
16.proof and defeat. chaos, of may be array yet no at be and battle, may head or disorder will tail, the seeming and it disorder all; amid be without tumult Amid against there confusion your yet turmoil real

17. Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength.
17.postulates Simulated perfect postulates discipline, disorder courage; simulated strength. postulates simulated fear weakness

18. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions.
18.order of beneath a disorder is question of courage concealing of energy; fund of masking strength is under by weakness tactical a simply to a show latent effected be the cloak Hiding presupposes timidity dispositions. subdivision; with

19-1. Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act.
19-1.deceitful to which the act. the enemy appearances, according will move maintains one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on Thus

19-2. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it.
19-2.enemy at it. may snatch He sacrifices something, that the

20. By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him.
20.holding him baits, on By the he march; out then keeps with body picked he in for a men wait of him. lies

21-1. The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals.
21-1.individuals. and looks effect of not does to much too clever combined energy, from The combatant require the

21-2. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and utilize combined energy.
21-2.ability Hence to right pick his men out energy. combined and the utilize

22-1. When he utilizes combined energy, his fighting men become as it were like unto rolling logs or stones.
22-1.stones. it combined fighting men like were energy, logs rolling he become as or When utilizes unto his

22-2. For it is the nature of a log or stone to remain motionless on level ground, and to move when on a slope; if four-cornered, to come to a standstill, but if round-shaped, to go rolling down.
22-2.it remain is a a log to if level on move to slope; of come to but ground, go standstill, rolling stone or if and to four-cornered, to round-shaped, the nature For on when down. motionless a

23-1. Thus the energy developed by good fighting men is as the momentum of a round stone rolled down a mountain thousands of feet in height.
23-1.good is by as fighting Thus developed momentum men the thousands a rolled energy height. stone down mountain of in the round a feet of

23-2. So much on the subject of energy.
23-2.So much subject of on the energy.
