Lv4-swap
II. WAGING WAR
II.WAR WAGING

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand li, the expenditure at home and at the front, including entertainment of guests, small items such as glue and paint, and sums spent on chariots and armor, will reach the total of a thousand ounces of silver per day.
1-1.heavy war, chariots, the and operations a field hundred where thousand a mail-clad the soldiers, thousand with there provisions swift enough of to chariots, carry are them as a In Sun many li, in Tzu thousand expenditure of said: such home at front, entertainment guests, items as and and spent chariots armor, reach total a ounces silver day. the and including small glue sums and the thousand per at of paint, will of the on

1-2. Such is the cost of raising an army of 100,000 men.
1-2.is raising an Such men. army of cost of 100,000 the

2-1. When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardor will be damped.
2-1.coming, grow will ardor their weapons damped. be dull and men's then will you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in When

2-2. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust your strength.
2-2.strength. to siege will you lay If your a town, you exhaust

3. Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain.
3.strain. State campaign the resources not will is to equal if of the the Again, the be protracted,

4-1. Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity.
4-1.your when Now, exhausted ardor your your your of weapons strength spent, will are extremity. chieftains take dulled, treasure spring to advantage your damped, and other up

4-2. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue.
4-2.Then wise, be however no will to must man, avert the that ensue. able consequences

5. Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.
5.heard we never have in haste seen has stupid associated Thus, with cleverness of though been long delays. war,

6. There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.
6.warfare. of instance benefited having no There prolonged a country is from

7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.
7.of understand thoroughly of way can on. it the profitable that war carrying is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils It

8. The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice.
8.levy, does not second are his soldier than supply-wagons raise a loaded more neither The skillful twice.

9-1. Bring war material with you from home, but forage on the enemy.
9-1.enemy. you with forage but material Bring the from home, war on

9-2. Thus the army will have food enough for its needs.
9-2.food its needs. enough for Thus the army will have

10-1. Poverty of the State exchequer causes an army to be maintained by contributions from a distance.
10-1.State a army to by Poverty distance. maintained be exchequer causes contributions from of an the

10-2. Contributing to maintain an army at a distance causes the people to be impoverished.
10-2.distance causes to be the people impoverished. Contributing to maintain an army at a

11. On the other hand, the proximity of an army causes prices to go up; and high prices cause the people's substance to be drained away.
11.proximity army the causes of On hand, to an the substance up; prices other away. high cause people's to drained prices and the be go

12. When their substance is drained away, the peasantry will be afflicted by heavy exactions.
12.peasantry will by heavy be afflicted exactions. When their substance is drained away, the

13,14. With this loss of substance and exhaustion of strength, the homes of the people will be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their income will be dissipated; while government expenses for broken chariots, worn-out horses, breast-plates and helmets, bows and arrows, spears and shields, protective mantles, draught-oxen and heavy wagons, will amount to four-tenths of its total revenue.
13,14.of chariots, the of people government will substance be horses, stripped and bare, dissipated; and exhaustion three-tenths With of of their for income strength, while this broken the breast-plates will and homes shields, loss and wagons, amount four-tenths its revenue. bows and draught-oxen will of and protective to arrows, total heavy be expenses worn-out helmets, spears mantles,

15-1. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy.
15-1.enemy. makes general foraging of wise Hence the a point a on

15-2. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store.
15-2.of the twenty and one's enemy's of a equivalent provisions one's picul to One single his twenty equivalent own, is store. cartload provender to from own is of likewise

16. Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards.
16.our enemy, roused their there must from that they kill rewards. may anger; the the advantage must enemy, have defeating be Now men in be order to to

17-1. Therefore in chariot fighting, when ten or more chariots have been taken, those should be rewarded who took the first.
17-1.rewarded or first. be took been more who taken, chariots Therefore the chariot those when ten have should in fighting,

17-2. Our own flags should be substituted for those of the enemy, and the chariots mingled and used in conjunction with ours.
17-2.Our be of substituted own for the those flags and enemy, and should with mingled conjunction used ours. the chariots in

17-3. The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept.
17-3.soldiers captured treated kindly be kept. The and should

18. This is called, using the conquered foe to augment one's own strength.
18.strength. the using augment to called, This own conquered foe is one's

19. In war, then, let your great object be victory, not lengthy campaigns.
19.campaigns. your let victory, be then, In lengthy great object war, not

20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril.
20.people's leader the the is be the on man armies depends it shall it or whether known the arbiter nation whom that in be of of the peace fate, Thus peril. in may
