Lv4-swap
I. LAYING PLANS
I.PLANS LAYING

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State.
1.is of to the vital importance State. Sun Tzu said: The art of war

2-1. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin.
2-1.matter to death, a to It ruin. either road of life safety or is and a

2-2. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.
2-2.which can account be on no neglected. Hence it is a subject of inquiry

3. The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.
3.of war, constant taken to then, deliberations, account determine is in one's five The in when conditions by be to field. art seeking the obtaining the governed factors, into

4. These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline.
4.(3) The Moral Heaven; (4) The (1) and Commander; Law; (2) (5) Method Earth; These are: discipline.

5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.
5,6.be their with any that undismayed him so lives, the danger. they ruler, people of follow complete to by regardless will The in Moral accord Law their causes

7. Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons.
7.signifies cold and Heaven seasons. heat, times and day, and night

8. Earth comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death.
8.chances danger death. the life ground and of and security; Earth and distances, narrow and small; open passes; comprises great

9. The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage and strictness.
9.stands The for wisdom, the Commander sincerity, virtues strictness. and benevolence, of courage

10. By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.
10.discipline proper are maintenance to the be roads of the its which graduations marshaling the may of of supplies the army, in of By control among military method army understood rank and by officers, the expenditure. and the subdivisions, the reach

11. These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail.
11.five to should every These general: be he heads who familiar knows will victorious; who them will them he not be fail. knows

12. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:--
12.in to deliberations, determine Therefore, the when military your conditions, seeking let be the of comparison, this them basis in made wise:-- a

13-1. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law?
13-1.law? two the with imbued of (1) Moral sovereigns is Which the

13-2. (2) Which of the two generals has most ability?
13-2.of Which has generals two ability? (2) most the

13-3. (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth?
13-3.With advantages derived (3) Earth? from Heaven lie the and whom

13-4. (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced?
13-4.which On most discipline is enforced? (4) rigorously side

13-5. (5) Which army is stronger?
13-5.(5) is stronger? Which army

13-6. (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained?
13-6.On officers and (6) trained? men more side are highly which

13-7. (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment?
13-7.greater constancy reward and both in punishment? (7) In which army is there the

14. By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat.
14.defeat. seven these forecast can of By or considerations I means victory

15-1. The general that hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it, will conquer: let such a one be retained in command!
15-1.The to acts my general counsel conquer: and that will it, a hearkens in such retained one command! upon let be

15-2. The general that hearkens not to my counsel nor acts upon it, will suffer defeat:-- let such a one be dismissed!
15-2.The not nor to general my will counsel that it, upon let hearkens be defeat:-- one such dismissed! acts suffer a

16. While heading the profit of my counsel, avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules.
16.and counsel, rules. over the of avail beyond any yourself While ordinary the helpful of my also circumstances heading profit

17. According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one's plans.
17.one one's plans. should modify According as circumstances are favorable,

18. All warfare is based on deception.
18.deception. on based is warfare All

19. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.
19.must inactive; we believe him forces, near. are when we we away; when using we far enemy near, far we away, must when make to must we believe seem unable; seem are make the when Hence, able attack, must our are we

20-1. Hold out baits to entice the enemy.
20-1.Hold out entice the baits to enemy.

20-2. Feign disorder, and crush him.
20-2.Feign crush him. disorder, and

21-1. If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him.
21-1.he all points, If him. be prepared secure at for is

21-2. If he is in superior strength, evade him.
21-2.in evade him. superior strength, he is If

22-1. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him.
22-1.your choleric temper, If him. seek to is of irritate opponent

22-2. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.
22-2.be to may he that arrogant. Pretend grow weak,

23-1. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest.
23-1.ease, no rest. give him If he is taking his

23-2. If his forces are united, separate them.
23-2.If his united, separate forces are them.

24. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.
24.expected. is he you where where Attack not unprepared, appear him are

25. These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand.
25.military victory, must These beforehand. not be leading to divulged devices,

26-1. Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought.
26-1.fought. in who battle makes temple his wins battle the the many calculations is Now general ere a

26-2. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand.
26-2.general battle makes The beforehand. but few loses a calculations who

26-3. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all!
26-3.lead many how calculations few and more defeat: victory, no Thus calculation to to do much at all! calculations

26-4. It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.
26-4.lose. foresee attention point that is who to win to is I can or It by likely this
