Lv4-swap
VII. MANEUVERING
VII.MANEUVERING

1. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his commands from the sovereign.
1.said: Sun In receives war, Tzu his the sovereign. the commands general from

2. Having collected an army and concentrated his forces, he must blend and harmonize the different elements thereof before pitching his camp.
2.Having and he concentrated collected his harmonize forces, an and blend elements army his different pitching thereof camp. must the before

3-1. After that, comes tactical maneuvering, than which there is nothing more difficult.
3-1.difficult. maneuvering, tactical is there comes After more than which that, nothing

3-2. The difficulty of tactical maneuvering consists in turning the devious into the direct, and misfortune into gain.
3-2.the tactical maneuvering turning into the of into direct, consists in and misfortune devious The difficulty gain.

4. Thus, to take a long and circuitous route, after enticing the enemy out of the way, and though starting after him, to contrive to reach the goal before him, shows knowledge of the artifice of DEVIATION.
4.DEVIATION. the a him, route, circuitous enemy contrive way, out after reach to long before goal of the Thus, him, and after of knowledge to and shows the to take though of artifice starting the enticing

5. Maneuvering with an army is advantageous; with an undisciplined multitude, most dangerous.
5.dangerous. is army undisciplined an an Maneuvering most advantageous; with with multitude,

6-1. If you set a fully equipped army in march in order to snatch an advantage, the chances are that you will be too late.
6-1.to chances the will you advantage, late. too are that an snatch be you set a fully equipped army in march in order If

6-2. On the other hand, to detach a flying column for the purpose involves the sacrifice of its baggage and stores.
6-2.of a stores. sacrifice baggage the flying its purpose column On and other involves to detach for the the hand,

7. Thus, if you order your men to roll up their buff-coats, and make forced marches without halting day or night, covering double the usual distance at a stretch, doing a hundred LI in order to wrest an advantage, the leaders of all your three divisions will fall into the hands of the enemy.
7.their stretch, buff-coats, if and usual make you forced a marches order without double halting your day LI or men the at a to hundred order to roll the night, your up fall Thus, of enemy. advantage, all will hands wrest three the into leaders covering distance doing in an of divisions the

8. The stronger men will be in front, the jaded ones will fall behind, and on this plan only one-tenth of your army will reach its destination.
8.ones will and your only its army one-tenth destination. men this on reach will of plan fall be in front, the jaded The will stronger behind,

9. If you march fifty LI in order to outmaneuver the enemy, you will lose the leader of your first division, and only half your force will reach the goal.
9.march fifty the lose you LI first leader half in reach your outmaneuver If of division, force to will only goal. you and your will the order enemy, the

10. If you march thirty LI with the same object, two-thirds of your army will arrive.
10.If LI the thirty you with object, will march two-thirds of army arrive. same your

11. We may take it then that an army without its baggage-train is lost; without provisions it is lost; without bases of supply it is lost.
11.that without then its an We it is army may of without is take lost. it lost; bases supply is baggage-train provisions without it lost;

12. We cannot enter into alliances until we are acquainted with the designs of our neighbors.
12.We alliances we into cannot until acquainted our enter with the of neighbors. are designs

13. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country-- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.
13.with army an face march fit familiar the of the mountains its pitfalls are marshes and to unless we its country-- lead precipices, and on are forests, its the We swamps. and not

14. We shall be unable to turn natural advantage to account unless we make use of local guides.
14.to unable to advantage unless we be local make turn natural use of account We shall guides.

15. In war, practice dissimulation, and you will succeed.
15.dissimulation, will succeed. and you war, practice In

16. Whether to concentrate or to divide your troops, must be decided by circumstances.
16.concentrate Whether or troops, to to must divide circumstances. by be your decided

17. Let your rapidity be that of the wind, your compactness that of the forest.
17.wind, your of the compactness that forest. Let your rapidity be that of the

18. In raiding and plundering be like fire, in immovability like a mountain.
18.mountain. be plundering immovability in and In a like fire, raiding like

19. Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.
19.night, be dark as when you plans a move, and impenetrable fall like and Let your thunderbolt.

20. When you plunder a countryside, let the spoil be divided amongst your men; when you capture new territory, cut it up into allotments for the benefit of the soldiery.
20.plunder a divided when your countryside, cut capture allotments let of territory, be When new it the spoil men; into soldiery. you up for benefit the the amongst you

21. Ponder and deliberate before you make a move.
21.before a move. you make and deliberate Ponder

22-1. He will conquer who has learnt the artifice of deviation.
22-1.learnt of deviation. the artifice He will conquer who has

22-2. Such is the art of maneuvering.
22-2.maneuvering. of art the is Such

23-1. The Book of Army Management says: On the field of battle, the spoken word does not carry far enough: hence the institution of gongs and drums.
23-1.of of word the far and institution enough: drums. of not does gongs Army hence carry the Management says: On the field The battle, Book spoken

23-2. Nor can ordinary objects be seen clearly enough: hence the institution of banners and flags.
23-2.Nor be clearly objects can seen hence and ordinary the institution banners flags. enough: of

24. Gongs and drums, banners and flags, are means whereby the ears and eyes of the host may be focused on one particular point.
24.and are banners means Gongs whereby and the drums, ears flags, and of host be on particular eyes may one the point. focused

25-1. The host thus forming a single united body, is it impossible either for the brave to advance alone, or for the cowardly to retreat alone.
25-1.single is a it united The forming either body, host the the advance thus alone. to alone, for cowardly retreat impossible brave or to for

25-2. This is the art of handling large masses of men.
25-2.handling of men. large masses This is the art of

26. In night-fighting, then, make much use of signal-fires and drums, and in fighting by day, of flags and banners, as a means of influencing the ears and eyes of your army.
26.In use by of fighting night-fighting, flags and a signal-fires the as of then, of means day, drums, of influencing army. make banners, ears and in and eyes your much and

27. A whole army may be robbed of its spirit; a commander-in-chief may be robbed of his presence of mind.
27.be army be may spirit; its of may of his A presence commander-in-chief robbed whole robbed of mind. a

28. Now a soldier's spirit is keenest in the morning; by noonday it has begun to flag; and in the evening, his mind is bent only on returning to camp.
28.soldier's spirit by begun it is the flag; is keenest returning in morning; Now and evening, only the has mind camp. a his bent on to in noonday to

29-1. A clever general, therefore, avoids an army when its spirit is keen, but attacks it when it is sluggish and inclined to return.
29-1.clever army therefore, when A its avoids spirit general, is an keen, attacks when is and to but it inclined it return. sluggish

29-2. This is the art of studying moods.
29-2.This is of studying the art moods.

30. Disciplined and calm, to await the appearance of disorder and hubbub amongst the enemy:-- this is the art of retaining self-possession.
30.Disciplined await disorder the and appearance the of calm, amongst hubbub is to retaining this of the self-possession. and enemy:-- art

31. To be near the goal while the enemy is still far from it, to wait at ease while the enemy is toiling and struggling, to be well-fed while the enemy is famished:-- this is the art of husbanding one's strength.
31.art wait strength. to husbanding far enemy well-fed from ease at the enemy is struggling, is while the famished:-- this To it, near the goal is still of while the be one's is and the while to toiling enemy be

32. To refrain from intercepting an enemy whose banners are in perfect order, to refrain from attacking an army drawn up in calm and confident array:-- this is the art of studying circumstances.
32.intercepting studying banners an order, from attacking drawn up are confident in the To circumstances. and in perfect army array:-- this an enemy is calm to refrain art of refrain from whose

33. It is a military axiom not to advance uphill against the enemy, nor to oppose him when he comes downhill.
33.him to downhill. oppose he the advance when enemy, uphill It comes a nor axiom not against to is military

34. Do not pursue an enemy who simulates flight; do not attack soldiers whose temper is keen.
34.an is flight; do soldiers Do keen. attack not enemy who whose temper not simulates pursue

35-1. Do not swallow bait offered by the enemy.
35-1.bait the enemy. offered by not swallow Do

35-2. Do not interfere with an army that is returning home.
35-2.army returning home. that is Do not interfere with an

36-1. When you surround an army, leave an outlet free.
36-1.surround you an leave army, free. When outlet an

36-2. Do not press a desperate foe too hard.
36-2.a too hard. desperate foe not press Do

37. Such is the art of warfare.
37.warfare. of art the is Such
