Lv4-swap
IX.  THE ARMY ON THE MARCH
IX.THE THE MARCH ARMY ON

1-1. Sun Tzu said: We come now to the question of encamping the army, and observing signs of the enemy.
1-1.come said: army, We question the observing the to signs Sun of encamping now Tzu and the enemy. of

1-2. Pass quickly over mountains, and keep in the neighborhood of valleys.
1-2.quickly keep in Pass valleys. the neighborhood mountains, and of over

2-1. Camp in high places, facing the sun.
2-1.Camp in facing the high places, sun.

2-2. Do not climb heights in order to fight.
2-2.heights to fight. in order not climb Do

2-3. So much for mountain warfare.
2-3.So mountain warfare. much for

3. After crossing a river, you should get far away from it.
3.crossing should get After it. far away river, you from a

4-1. When an invading force crosses a river in its onward march, do not advance to meet it in mid-stream.
4-1.crosses invading not force its in to do river meet When it march, a an advance in mid-stream. onward

4-2. It will be best to let half the army get across, and then deliver your attack.
4-2.best your the army and It attack. across, get to let then deliver will half be

5. If you are anxious to fight, you should not go to meet the invader near a river which he has to cross.
5.invader river which to cross. he has near a to meet the you are anxious to fight, you should not go If

6-1. Moor your craft higher up than the enemy, and facing the sun.
6-1.sun. up higher and enemy, craft Moor the than the your facing

6-2. Do not move up-stream to meet the enemy.
6-2.up-stream the enemy. to meet not move Do

6-3. So much for river warfare.
6-3.So river warfare. much for

7. In crossing salt-marshes, your sole concern should be to get over them quickly, without any delay.
7.your any be to them In delay. over get sole concern quickly, without crossing should salt-marshes,

8-1. If forced to fight in a salt-marsh, you should have water and grass near you, and get your back to a clump of trees.
8-1.and get and a to you, trees. of your back near grass clump forced to fight in a salt-marsh, you should have water If

8-2. So much for operations in salt-marches.
8-2.salt-marches. in operations for much So

9-1. In dry, level country, take up an easily accessible position with rising ground to your right and on your rear, so that the danger may be in front, and safety lie behind.
9-1.country, lie easily and rising level right your rear, accessible danger so front, In behind. the position with on may be take up in that ground to and safety dry, your an

9-2. So much for campaigning in flat country.
9-2.So much in flat for campaigning country.

10. These are the four useful branches of military knowledge which enabled the Yellow Emperor to vanquish four several sovereigns.
10.useful the Yellow four knowledge military to the of vanquish These four enabled branches are Emperor several sovereigns. which

11. All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark.
11.dark. ground high sunny and prefer All to to low armies places

12. If you are careful of your men, and camp on hard ground, the army will be free from disease of every kind, and this will spell victory.
12.men, you If ground, and are on army will careful hard be disease of victory. from and your will of kind, this spell camp the free every

13-1. When you come to a hill or a bank, occupy the sunny side, with the slope on your right rear.
13-1.slope or rear. the your the a on sunny bank, When right come side, a hill occupy with you to

13-2. Thus you will at once act for the benefit of your soldiers and utilize the natural advantages of the ground.
13-2.natural for ground. the of your the advantages soldiers benefit Thus the will and once act of utilize you at

14. When, in consequence of heavy rains up-country, a river which you wish to ford is swollen and flecked with foam, you must wait until it subsides.
14.which wait ford you flecked it must with subsides. consequence swollen is until of foam, and wish heavy rains up-country, a river When, you in to

15. Country in which there are precipitous cliffs with torrents running between, deep natural hollows, confined places, tangled thickets, quagmires and crevasses, should be left with all possible speed and not approached.
15.Country precipitous hollows, places, natural in tangled thickets, crevasses, with with and and which cliffs should confined running be left approached. there quagmires all between, deep possible speed not are torrents

16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them, we should let the enemy have them on his rear.
16.keep away get approach enemy from them, while the such on face should While we we have we to let rear. we should enemy them his places, the them;

17. If in the neighborhood of your camp there should be any hilly country, ponds surrounded by aquatic grass, hollow basins filled with reeds, or woods with thick undergrowth, they must be carefully routed out and searched; for these are places where men in ambush or insidious spies are likely to be lurking.
17.searched; thick places for ambush reeds, are are lurking. they men where to filled insidious in these be basins or or woods undergrowth, spies carefully routed If likely the hollow of be camp and should be any hilly country, ponds surrounded by aquatic grass, with with must out in neighborhood your there

18. When the enemy is close at hand and remains quiet, he is relying on the natural strength of his position.
18.natural hand position. the of he and strength is remains When his enemy relying close at quiet, on the is

19. When he keeps aloof and tries to provoke a battle, he is anxious for the other side to advance.
19.and keeps anxious aloof a provoke the is to other When side he tries he for to advance. battle,

20. If his place of encampment is easy of access, he is tendering a bait.
20.of access, tendering a he is bait. If his place of encampment is easy

21-1. Movement amongst the trees of a forest shows that the enemy is advancing.
21-1.the Movement trees shows of amongst that a advancing. is the forest enemy

21-2. The appearance of a number of screens in the midst of thick grass means that the enemy wants to make us suspicious.
21-2.means enemy wants of suspicious. to make that the us thick grass appearance of a number of screens in the midst The

22-1. The rising of birds in their flight is the sign of an ambuscade.
22-1.of The birds is in rising the their ambuscade. an sign flight of

22-2. Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack is coming.
22-2.indicate beasts attack sudden a coming. Startled is that

23-1. When there is dust rising in a high column, it is the sign of chariots advancing; when the dust is low, but spread over a wide area, it betokens the approach of infantry.
23-1.advancing; high a the is dust chariots is dust it spread but area, there approach over rising the sign wide low, in betokens it column, of a the when When infantry. of is

23-2. When it branches out in different directions, it shows that parties have been sent to collect firewood.
23-2.shows out in it parties have branches collect been different directions, sent to that When it firewood.

23-3. A few clouds of dust moving to and fro signify that the army is encamping.
23-3.A dust to of few moving fro is clouds signify that army encamping. and the

24-1. Humble words and increased preparations are signs that the enemy is about to advance.
24-1.that the about to enemy is advance. Humble words and increased preparations are signs

24-2. Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat.
24-2.driving will to the signs Violent retreat. are attack forward as that he language if and

25. When the light chariots come out first and take up a position on the wings, it is a sign that the enemy is forming for battle.
25.up is the the a for enemy sign battle. light it wings, forming chariots that is position come out first and take When a the on

26. Peace proposals unaccompanied by a sworn covenant indicate a plot.
26.sworn a plot. covenant indicate Peace proposals unaccompanied by a

27. When there is much running about and the soldiers fall into rank, it means that the critical moment has come.
27.the and come. that moment into the critical rank, soldiers When has is it running about fall means there much

28. When some are seen advancing and some retreating, it is a lure.
28.lure. advancing seen it retreating, are When a and some some is

29. When the soldiers stand leaning on their spears, they are faint from want of food.
29.When leaning their stand the on they of soldiers are faint want food. spears, from

30. If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering from thirst.
30.thirst. drinking are draw water the themselves, sent suffering is those begin by from If who army to

31. If the enemy sees an advantage to be gained and makes no effort to secure it, the soldiers are exhausted.
31.it, to exhausted. secure soldiers makes be the no gained If are enemy effort an advantage and to the sees

32-1. If birds gather on any spot, it is unoccupied.
32-1.gather birds it spot, any unoccupied. If is on

32-2. Clamor by night betokens nervousness.
32-2.Clamor betokens nervousness. by night

33-1. If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak.
33-1.weak. in disturbance general's the is If is the camp, there authority

33-2. If the banners and flags are shifted about, sedition is afoot.
33-2.the are shifted If afoot. about, sedition and flags is banners

33-3. If the officers are angry, it means that the men are weary.
33-3.weary. angry, are the that officers If are it means the men

34. When an army feeds its horses with grain and kills its cattle for food, and when the men do not hang their cooking-pots over the camp-fires, showing that they will not return to their tents, you may know that they are determined to fight to the death.
34.with their grain return and men kills their its over cattle When for when the an hang camp-fires, the army they not to feeds may that are its to food, know horses the will you fight and do cooking-pots showing not tents, that to death. determined they

35. The sight of men whispering together in small knots or speaking in subdued tones points to disaffection amongst the rank and file.
35.tones disaffection amongst speaking file. the rank points to and in subdued sight of men whispering together in small knots or The

36. Too frequent rewards signify that the enemy is at the end of his resources; too many punishments betray a condition of dire distress.
36.frequent enemy signify is Too at that the rewards end the of resources; many betray condition dire his punishments of too distress. a

37. To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.
37.but by numbers, bluster, fright take a enemy's to supreme To lack the afterwards begin shows of intelligence. at

38. When envoys are sent with compliments in their mouths, it is a sign that the enemy wishes for a truce.
38.enemy in truce. the for is their wishes a mouths, When a are sign with compliments it that envoys sent

39. If the enemy's troops march up angrily and remain facing ours for a long time without either joining battle or taking themselves off again, the situation is one that demands great vigilance and circumspection.
39.the remain up battle facing march long taking joining ours themselves off situation enemy's demands the circumspection. a and is without angrily again, that vigilance time for great one If or and troops either

40-1. If our troops are no more in number than the enemy, that is amply sufficient; it only means that no direct attack can be made.
40-1.more than no the in If are that number our direct amply only troops made. it means no attack be enemy, sufficient; that can is

40-2. What we can do is simply to concentrate all our available strength, keep a close watch on the enemy, and obtain reinforcements.
40-2.a on the available reinforcements. enemy, and close watch obtain strength, keep we can do is simply to concentrate all our What

41. He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them.
41.them. opponents no makes light sure is forethought captured be who of his by He exercises to but

42-1. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless.
42-1.they and, submissive; will then prove useless. practically unless submissive, not will be soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, If

42-2. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.
42-2.useless. are soldiers attached to enforced, not have still will when you, punishments be If, the they become

43-1. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline.
43-1.by the discipline. control of humanity, first means but instance Therefore iron must kept treated in with under soldiers be

43-2. This is a certain road to victory.
43-2.This is road to a certain victory.

44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.
44.its habitually bad. not, will will enforced, discipline be the If be training well-disciplined; commands are army if in soldiers

45. If a general shows confidence in his men but always insists on his orders being obeyed, the gain will be mutual.
45.If confidence but in a his his men general on insists obeyed, shows be being will the mutual. always orders gain

