Lv4-swap
VI. WEAK POINTS AND STRONG
VI.STRONG AND WEAK POINTS


1. Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted.
1.Tzu the said: fight; in the awaits is the of fresh in whoever first the field to enemy, will has arrive and field hasten will be second battle to Whoever is Sun the for exhausted. coming and

2. Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him.
2.allow will to but him. be imposed the enemy's on does not the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, Therefore

3. By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.
3.advantages draw can accord; to out own by inflicting cause make damage, the By near. can the enemy or, it impossible to him, for he approach of enemy to holding his he

4. If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him; if well supplied with food, he can starve him out; if quietly encamped, he can force him to move.
4.his to harass force supplied If can he if ease, can starve move. the if out; him can him quietly food, enemy he he encamped, him; is well taking with

5. Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected.
5.the points to which to hasten where swiftly must you Appear are march enemy at places not expected. defend;

6. An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not.
6.not. marches march without distress, country through great enemy the army if it is An may where distances

7-1. You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.
7-1.attacks sure of your you only be are attack succeeding in places which if You can undefended.

7-2. You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.
7-2.if the safety defense only hold ensure be positions of your that cannot you You can attacked.

8. Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.
8.general is does to know skillful skillful and opponent in what is opponent Hence he in not whose what whose attack. that defense does know to attack not defend;

9-1. O divine art of subtlety and secrecy!
9-1.O divine subtlety and art of secrecy!

9-2. Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible; and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands.
9-2.Through to you be you invisible, we through we hence and the learn our hold in enemy's hands. inaudible; can fate

10. You may advance and be absolutely irresistible, if you make for the enemy's weak points; you may retire and be safe from pursuit if your movements are more rapid than those of the enemy.
10.may you absolutely and make be weak safe retire for from pursuit movements advance than your enemy. enemy's if are you irresistible, if rapid of points; the those more You be the and may

11-1. If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an engagement even though he be sheltered behind a high rampart and a deep ditch.
11-1.forced and even high sheltered deep rampart behind ditch. wish he though a to a be an fight, the enemy can be If to we engagement

11-2. All we need do is attack some other place that he will be obliged to relieve.
11-2.do to other place will All relieve. he that is attack be obliged we some need

12-1. If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground.
12-1.do not prevent engaging enemy wish lines even be to on the can If though of traced we from encampment ground. we our merely out the fight, the us

12-2. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way.
12-2.something odd in his and unaccountable way. All we need do is to throw

13. By discovering the enemy's dispositions and remaining invisible ourselves, we can keep our forces concentrated, while the enemy's must be divided.
13.By dispositions ourselves, and discovering remaining our invisible the keep can while enemy's be concentrated, must the divided. we forces enemy's

14-1. We can form a single united body, while the enemy must split up into fractions.
14-1.We single body, a can united the into form enemy must up fractions. while split

14-2. Hence there will be a whole pitted against separate parts of a whole, which means that we shall be many to the enemy's few.
14-2.a we that to many means few. enemy's shall be which whole, the there will be a whole pitted against separate parts of Hence

15. And if we are able thus to attack an inferior force with a superior one, our opponents will be in dire straits.
15.superior opponents will force straits. be in one, our dire with a if we are able thus to attack an inferior And

16. The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points; and his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionately few.
16.many different we directions, face possible point numbers few. and have shall be against any to the forces prepare at attack at points; given being thus The will where to intend proportionately fight in not be made known; for then the enemy will have a several his distributed spot we to must

17-1. For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear; should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van; should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right; should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left.
17-1.his rear, weaken left, he should left. will weaken will he his he his van; should his his weaken strengthen he strengthen should right, enemy should his will he will his his he strengthen right; For the strengthen van, rear; weaken he

17-2. If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.
17-2.he be weak. will everywhere If he sends reinforcements everywhere,

18. Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; numerical strength, from compelling our adversary to make these preparations against us.
18.compelling to make numerical us. these preparations our adversary against strength, from weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; Numerical

19. Knowing the place and the time of the coming battle, we may concentrate from the greatest distances in order to fight.
19.Knowing the coming time the of concentrate the place may we greatest and to the order distances fight. battle, from in

20-1. But if neither time nor place be known, then the left wing will be impotent to succor the right, the right equally impotent to succor the left, the van unable to relieve the rear, or the rear to support the van.
20-1.time to nor the place wing be the left the impotent unable right, the impotent relieve left, the to rear, or be support But to equally the if will known, right neither van to rear van. the then succor succor the

20-2. How much more so if the furthest portions of the army are anything under a hundred LI apart, and even the nearest are separated by several LI!
20-2.furthest much How are portions more the under by so army hundred and if LI! apart, are the a even nearest separated several of anything LI the

21-1. Though according to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our own in number, that shall advantage them nothing in the matter of victory.
21-1.own advantage shall the in that victory. of them nothing number, in matter according to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our Though

21-2. I say then that victory can be achieved.
21-2.that be achieved. victory can say then I

22-1. Though the enemy be stronger in numbers, we may prevent him from fighting.
22-1.enemy Though be we stronger the may in fighting. from prevent numbers, him

22-2. Scheme so as to discover his plans and the likelihood of their success.
22-2.as Scheme to and discover so the his success. their likelihood plans of

23-1. Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity.
23-1.him, principle of Rouse inactivity. his activity learn the or and

23-2. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots.
23-2.to Force reveal to himself, him find so spots. vulnerable out as his

24. Carefully compare the opposing army with your own, so that you may know where strength is superabundant and where it is deficient.
24.where superabundant and you deficient. where it strength is is may know compare the opposing army with your own, so that Carefully

25. In making tactical dispositions, the highest pitch you can attain is to conceal them; conceal your dispositions, and you will be safe from the prying of the subtlest spies, from the machinations of the wisest brains.
25.brains. is dispositions, be you pitch to from your conceal will prying the the subtlest the machinations conceal In spies, highest can them; the safe dispositions, from of making tactical and wisest the you of attain

26. How victory may be produced for them out of the enemy's own tactics-- that is what the multitude cannot comprehend.
26.what them comprehend. is multitude enemy's out the own of How cannot may tactics-- produced for the that victory be

27. All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.
27.men whereby see I All conquer, the but can what tactics none see the out which is can strategy victory is evolved. of
28. Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
28.not have the gained Do you tactics one repeat victory, which but your be by infinite of let regulated variety methods circumstances. the

29. Military tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards.
29.high for downwards. from and natural water places course in Military hastens are runs unto water; its away tactics like

30. So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak.
30.weak. strong the to avoid to and way what at in what is is So war, strike is

31. Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing.
31.to is the whom it Water works soldier in the foe out facing. shapes over victory his of he relation the its nature the to ground course which according flows;

32. Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions.
32.water constant shape, so there Therefore, conditions. warfare in retains no are no just constant as

33. He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain.
33.succeed may be opponent captain. called a in winning, heaven-born and thereby who can modify his tactics in relation to his He

34-1. The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always equally predominant; the four seasons make way for each other in turn.
34-1.five metal, (water, earth) The are fire, not elements always wood, equally the seasons way each in predominant; make other four turn. for

34-2. There are short days and long; the moon has its periods of waning and waxing.
34-2.There and the days are long; has and short its periods waning waxing. moon of
