Lv4-swap
IV. TACTICAL DISPOSITIONS
IV.DISPOSITIONS TACTICAL

1. Sun Tzu said: The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.
1.put of possibility an then the opportunity waited enemy. said: defeat, of defeating The for and beyond good fighters of old first Sun themselves Tzu the

2. To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.
2.secure in against our To own defeat hands, ourselves but lies the of the is by enemy opportunity enemy the defeating himself. provided

3. Thus the good fighter is able to secure himself against defeat, but cannot make certain of defeating the enemy.
3.is good cannot fighter himself secure certain but to of Thus defeating defeat, able the make the enemy. against

4. Hence the saying: One may know how to conquer without being able to do it.
4.Hence may how One the know conquer do saying: without being to it. to able

5. Security against defeat implies defensive tactics; ability to defeat the enemy means taking the offensive.
5.Security defensive ability implies against tactics; defeat the defeat the enemy taking offensive. to means

6. Standing on the defensive indicates insufficient strength; attacking, a superabundance of strength.
6.strength. indicates defensive a attacking, the Standing of insufficient strength; on superabundance

7-1. The general who is skilled in defense hides in the most secret recesses of the earth; he who is skilled in attack flashes forth from the topmost heights of heaven.
7-1.in of the topmost of The who he attack defense the is heaven. general secret in skilled in heights flashes earth; who hides from forth most is recesses skilled the

7-2. Thus on the one hand we have ability to protect ourselves; on the other, a victory that is complete.
7-2.hand the the one to ability a on have victory Thus that ourselves; we on other, is complete. protect

8. To see victory only when it is within the ken of the common herd is not the acme of excellence.
8.not is excellence. is acme of within the the the To of victory common when it ken herd see only

9. Neither is it the acme of excellence if you fight and conquer and the whole Empire says, "Well done!"
9.acme it and the you if whole conquer excellence Empire Neither says, and of is the "Well done!" fight

10. To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength; to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.
10.ear. strength; autumn of sign no to sight; and see sign hear to hair of noise sign sun To thunder is of the no sharp moon is of lift an is quick a no the great

11. What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.
11.a ancients wins, called one is excels only fighter in What winning not clever the but with ease. who

12. Hence his victories bring him neither reputation for wisdom nor credit for courage.
12.victories Hence bring for him his wisdom neither courage. for nor reputation credit

13-1. He wins his battles by making no mistakes.
13-1.battles no mistakes. by making wins his He

13-2. Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated.
13-2.enemy the defeated. an is for certainty that it of Making already mistakes means what establishes victory, conquering no is

14. Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy.
14.the into fighter a Hence position puts which skillful makes himself defeat and not the for the impossible, miss defeating does enemy. moment

15. Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.
15.that for victorious been battle is has whereas he strategist to who and Thus victory. destined only seeks won, defeat first in war fights is after the afterwards looks it victory the

16. The consummate leader cultivates the moral law, and strictly adheres to method and discipline; thus it is in his power to control success.
16.consummate law, cultivates and The strictly the adheres leader to moral method discipline; it in power control and is to thus success. his

17. In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory.
17.In method, Measurement; we respect have, quantity; firstly, of of Estimation fourthly, military fifthly, Calculation; chances; Balancing Victory. secondly, thirdly, of

18. Measurement owes its existence to Earth; Estimation of quantity to Measurement; Calculation to Estimation of quantity; Balancing of chances to Calculation; and Victory to Balancing of chances.
18.Estimation owes Measurement Calculation of its to Estimation Balancing existence Measurement; quantity; chances to chances. of Victory Earth; of to and to of quantity to Balancing Calculation;

19. A victorious army opposed to a routed one, is as a pound's weight placed in the scale against a single grain.
19.A to is a victorious routed weight one, army pound's a the opposed single in a scale grain. as placed against

20. The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep.
20.chasm is deep. a thousand of like a pent-up the The fathoms of waters conquering force bursting into onrush a
