Lv4-swap
XIII. THE USE OF SPIES
XIII.SPIES OF THE USE

1-1. Sun Tzu said: Raising a host of a hundred thousand men and marching them great distances entails heavy loss on the people and a drain on the resources of the State.
1-1.Sun host them distances marching Tzu entails heavy the a drain on of said: of people great thousand and a State. Raising loss on men and the resources the a hundred

1-2. The daily expenditure will amount to a thousand ounces of silver.
1-2.daily to a The silver. thousand ounces will amount of expenditure

1-3. There will be commotion at home and abroad, and men will drop down exhausted on the highways.
1-3.and commotion at abroad, will drop be the down home and exhausted on men There will highways.

1-4. As many as seven hundred thousand families will be impeded in their labor.
1-4.as As seven will hundred many be thousand labor. their impeded families in

2-1. Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day.
2-1.each may which face striving years, decided victory for in Hostile a the other armies is single day. for

2-2. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the enemy's condition simply because one grudges the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of inhumanity.
2-2.to of of outlay simply so, the a hundred the in ounces is This inhumanity. silver enemy's condition of honors and remain in emoluments, of because one the height being grudges ignorance

3. One who acts thus is no leader of men, no present help to his sovereign, no master of victory.
3.is acts to thus men, of sovereign, help leader no One master present no who his of victory. no

4. Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is foreknowledge.
4.sovereign good wise general and Thus, the strike the what of conquer, things enables foreknowledge. achieve beyond reach ordinary is to and the men, and

5. Now this foreknowledge cannot be elicited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any deductive calculation.
5.nor from calculation. experience, any be spirits; by obtained it Now deductive foreknowledge inductively be elicited cannot from this cannot

6. Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can only be obtained from other men.
6.men. dispositions enemy's obtained be the Knowledge other can only of from

7. Hence the use of spies, of whom there are five classes: (1) Local spies; (2) inward spies; (3) converted spies; (4) doomed spies; (5) surviving spies.
7.five spies; spies; (4) (3) surviving doomed converted spies. use inward (2) (5) of spies; spies; (1) spies, of whom there are Hence classes: the Local

8-1. When these five kinds of spy are all at work, none can discover the secret system.
8-1.kinds secret all at can When system. none work, of spy discover the these are five

8-2. This is called "divine manipulation of the threads."
8-2."divine the threads." manipulation of is called This

8-3. It is the sovereign's most precious faculty.
8-3.It is most precious the sovereign's faculty.

9. Having local spies means employing the services of the inhabitants of a district.
9.spies Having means of employing local the the district. a inhabitants services of

10. Having inward spies, making use of officials of the enemy.
10.of the enemy. officials of Having inward spies, making use

11. Having converted spies, getting hold of the enemy's spies and using them for our own purposes.
11.getting own enemy's spies them Having purposes. using and hold of for our converted the spies,

12. Having doomed spies, doing certain things openly for purposes of deception, and allowing our spies to know of them and report them to the enemy.
12.things purposes certain of openly Having doing and for doomed report our know spies, enemy. to of and them the deception, spies them to allowing

13. Surviving spies, finally, are those who bring back news from the enemy's camp.
13.finally, Surviving are back those spies, news who camp. enemy's from bring the

14-1. Hence it is that which none in the whole army are more intimate relations to be maintained than with spies.
14-1.be in spies. to than are the maintained more whole Hence with is intimate which none army relations it that

14-2. None should be more liberally rewarded.
14-2.rewarded. liberally more be should None

14-3. In no other business should greater secrecy be preserved.
14-3.other no secrecy greater should preserved. In be business

15. Spies cannot be usefully employed without a certain intuitive sagacity.
15.without intuitive sagacity. a certain Spies cannot be usefully employed

16. They cannot be properly managed without benevolence and straightforwardness.
16.be cannot benevolence without managed straightforwardness. They and properly

17. Without subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make certain of the truth of their reports.
17.Without mind, cannot of subtle one certain their ingenuity of the of reports. make truth

18. Be subtle! be subtle! and use your spies for every kind of business.
18.be Be subtle! spies and subtle! for use business. of every your kind

19. If a secret piece of news is divulged by a spy before the time is ripe, he must be put to death together with the man to whom the secret was told.
19.piece was divulged he before secret ripe, be put by with to whom If told. together a spy must the man of news to death the time the secret a is is

20-1. Whether the object be to crush an army, to storm a city, or to assassinate an individual, it is always necessary to begin by finding out the names of the attendants, the aides-de-camp, and door-keepers and sentries of the general in command.
20-1.and individual, general the of or command. of storm is to attendants, it a to aides-de-camp, out necessary the door-keepers and assassinate the sentries be begin crush the army, to an in by finding the Whether object to an city, always names

20-2. Our spies must be commissioned to ascertain these.
20-2.be ascertain these. commissioned to spies must Our

21-1. The enemy's spies who have come to spy on us must be sought out, tempted with bribes, led away and comfortably housed.
21-1.out, bribes, led must housed. away and tempted with comfortably be sought enemy's spies who have come to spy on us The

21-2. Thus they will become converted spies and available for our service.
21-2.they spies and Thus service. available for become converted our will

22. It is through the information brought by the converted spy that we are able to acquire and employ local and inward spies.
22.able and employ that spies. local and to acquire inward we are is through the information brought by the converted spy It

23. It is owing to his information, again, that we can cause the doomed spy to carry false tidings to the enemy.
23.It his we information, is again, doomed that owing the cause carry to the to to false enemy. can spy tidings

24. Lastly, it is by his information that the surviving spy can be used on appointed occasions.
24.by appointed the surviving be Lastly, occasions. can spy his information used on it that is

25-1. The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy.
25-1.The spying of enemy; knowledge end and this only all the can the and in be the five derived, in spy. aim knowledge first varieties is instance, from converted of its

25-2. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality.
25-2.spy be the utmost treated with liberality. Hence it is essential that the converted

26-1. Of old, the rise of the Yin dynasty was due to I Chih who had served under the Hsia.
26-1.of the Chih rise was dynasty had I Yin served Of under to the old, who the Hsia. due

26-2. Likewise, the rise of the Chou dynasty was due to Lu Ya who had served under the Yin.
26-2.Yin. Lu of dynasty was who Ya the under served the due to the Likewise, rise had Chou

27-1. Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for purposes of spying and thereby they achieve great results.
27-1.enlightened great wise they use Hence of intelligence purposes ruler thereby the results. it who for army the achieve of highest is and and spying general only will the the

27-2. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army's ability to move.
27-2.because most important water, them depends a to an element in army's ability on Spies are move.

