Lv4-swap
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE
XII.FIRE BY THE ATTACK

1-1. Sun Tzu said: There are five ways of attacking with fire.
1-1.Tzu five ways Sun fire. of attacking There are with said:

1-2. The first is to burn soldiers in their camp; the second is to burn stores; the third is to burn baggage trains; the fourth is to burn arsenals and magazines; the fifth is to hurl dropping fire amongst the enemy.
1-2.dropping stores; enemy. is amongst second their burn is third the and burn camp; fourth the arsenals to fifth is The to is hurl burn baggage the fire is in to the to the to soldiers burn trains; magazines; first

2-1. In order to carry out an attack, we must have means available.
2-1.available. out carry must we to In means an attack, order have

2-2. The material for raising fire should always be kept in readiness.
2-2.material should always The readiness. be kept raising fire in for

3. There is a proper season for making attacks with fire, and special days for starting a conflagration.
3.with proper season attacks and special a a days for making for starting fire, There is conflagration.

4. The proper season is when the weather is very dry; the special days are those when the moon is in the constellations of the Sieve, the Wall, the Wing or the Cross-bar; for these four are all days of rising wind.
4.is when when the the special weather the the moon those or is dry; of Cross-bar; Wall, in the these four are of The days constellations rising proper days is the season Wing the all wind. are very the Sieve, for

5-1. In attacking with fire, one should be prepared to meet five possible developments: 6.
5-1.prepared to possible developments: meet five 6. In attacking with fire, one should be

5-2. (1) When fire breaks out inside to enemy's camp, respond at once with an attack from without.
5-2.camp, breaks out enemy's at once fire from with inside to an attack respond (1) When without.

7. (2) If there is an outbreak of fire, but the enemy's soldiers remain quiet, bide your time and do not attack.
7.(2) an but outbreak If of remain fire, there soldiers enemy's your is not bide do time attack. the quiet, and

8. (3) When the force of the flames has reached its height, follow it up with an attack, if that is practicable; if not, stay where you are.
8.flames When (3) follow has the its up where force height, an that of are. if not, the with is if stay you reached it attack, practicable;

9. (4) If it is possible to make an assault with fire from without, do not wait for it to break out within, but deliver your attack at a favorable moment.
9.to favorable with at do (4) it for within, make attack to moment. If from out break assault a but wait it an your deliver fire is without, possible not

10-1. (5) When you start a fire, be to windward of it.
10-1.When fire, be (5) it. to windward start a of you

10-2. Do not attack from the leeward.
10-2.leeward. the from attack not Do

11. A wind that rises in the daytime lasts long, but a night breeze soon falls.
11.A in daytime rises wind the long, soon that but a breeze falls. lasts night

12. In every army, the five developments connected with fire must be known, the movements of the stars calculated, and a watch kept for the proper days.
12.must for movements watch calculated, proper kept and days. army, the of the the a stars known, five developments connected with fire In be every the

13. Hence those who use fire as an aid to the attack show intelligence; those who use water as an aid to the attack gain an accession of strength.
13.aid attack show of use an aid who gain fire strength. water those as the an the an accession to as Hence to those attack who intelligence; use

14. By means of water, an enemy may be intercepted, but not robbed of all his belongings.
14.water, his be intercepted, robbed By belongings. not but an enemy of all means may of

15. Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise; for the result is waste of time and general stagnation.
15.his tries who without his fate in the cultivating win enterprise; of is is and for of battles and result spirit one of waste to succeed the time attacks Unhappy stagnation. general the

16. Hence the saying: The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources.
16.plans The enlightened his ahead; the saying: his good ruler lays general cultivates well Hence the resources.

17. Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.
17.an not see your advantage; Move you unless use not unless is be unless critical. to gained; not the is troops something fight position there

18. No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.
18.his should general simply battle no pique. of fight a spleen; own out ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify No

19. If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, stay where you are.
19.to you a forward not, If are. if move; your advantage, stay where it make is

20. Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.
20.in Anger time vexation change may may to content. by be gladness; succeeded

21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.
21.again the can brought be nor life. to dead ever being; into back a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come But

22-1. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution.
22-1.enlightened Hence ruler the is the good heedful, caution. of general and full

22-2. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact.
22-2.country at an army peace and intact. This is the way to keep a

