Lv4-swap
XI. THE NINE SITUATIONS
XI.THE NINE SITUATIONS

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) facile ground; (3) contentious ground; (4) open ground; (5) ground of intersecting highways; (6) serious ground; (7) difficult ground; (8) hemmed-in ground; (9) desperate ground.
1.The (2) art ground of ground: war intersecting of ground; ground; (6) (3) varieties open ground; of contentious serious difficult ground; Dispersive (9) Sun ground; (4) desperate Tzu (1) recognizes ground; said: highways; ground; hemmed-in ground. (8) nine facile (5) (7)

2. When a chieftain is fighting in his own territory, it is dispersive ground.
2.chieftain When is own fighting a territory, in ground. dispersive it his is

3. When he has penetrated into hostile territory, but to no great distance, it is facile ground.
3.penetrated facile but to distance, When ground. great no into hostile it is he territory, has

4. Ground the possession of which imports great advantage to either side, is contentious ground.
4.advantage to is contentious either side, ground. Ground the possession of which imports great

5. Ground on which each side has liberty of movement is open ground.
5.ground. side each movement of which Ground open has liberty on is

6. Ground which forms the key to three contiguous states, so that he who occupies it first has most of the Empire at his command, is a ground of intersecting highways.
6.to intersecting so ground occupies Ground most has at three a of highways. which he Empire the states, of his first forms contiguous is command, that the who key it

7. When an army has penetrated into the heart of a hostile country, leaving a number of fortified cities in its rear, it is serious ground.
7.into of penetrated a the When has country, heart an rear, a fortified army ground. of cities its it serious hostile number in is leaving

8. Mountain forests, rugged steeps, marshes and fens-- all country that is hard to traverse: this is difficult ground.
8.ground. is steeps, fens-- all to hard marshes is this forests, country that difficult Mountain rugged traverse: and

9. Ground which is reached through narrow gorges, and from which we can only retire by tortuous paths, so that a small number of the enemy would suffice to crush a large body of our men: this is hemmed in ground.
9.this by ground. enemy hemmed we and suffice can paths, tortuous crush a from the large to that body of Ground only is men: through small which is so gorges, would in our of reached narrow retire number a which

10. Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.
10.from we can saved by fighting which desperate without only be delay, is destruction Ground on ground.

11-1. On dispersive ground, therefore, fight not.
11-1.not. fight therefore, ground, dispersive On

11-2. On facile ground, halt not.
11-2.On halt not. facile ground,

11-3. On contentious ground, attack not.
11-3.On attack not. contentious ground,

12-1. On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way.
12-1.open try to On way. block the do not enemy's ground,

12-2. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.
12-2.the highways, join On allies. hands with of intersecting your ground

13-1. On serious ground, gather in plunder.
13-1.plunder. in gather ground, serious On

13-2. In difficult ground, keep steadily on the march.
13-2.keep the march. steadily on difficult ground, In

14-1. On hemmed-in ground, resort to stratagem.
14-1.stratagem. to resort ground, hemmed-in On

14-2. On desperate ground, fight.
14-2.fight. ground, On desperate

15. Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men.
15.rescuing and officers divisions; men. between rallying hinder bad, to drive good the a rear; from between co-operation small the the enemy's Those the were his skillful from of to knew their wedge and prevent large to troops who called leaders old how front

16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder.
16.enemy's When men managed were the to united, disorder. in keep they them

17. When it was to their advantage, they made a forward move; when otherwise, they stopped still.
17.to stopped made a when When still. move; forward their advantage, otherwise, they it they was

18. If asked how to cope with a great host of the enemy in orderly array and on the point of marching to the attack, I should say: "Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will."
18.dear; point be by will." array to something he marching enemy your and in of holds attack, the "Begin then which on If will how I cope amenable a the host your orderly say: to should seizing opponent asked to with great of the

19. Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots.
19.your unexpected routes, enemy's spots. and attack way by unguarded unreadiness, make is the essence of war: take advantage of the Rapidity

20. The following are the principles to be observed by an invading force: The further you penetrate into a country, the greater will be the solidarity of your troops, and thus the defenders will not prevail against you.
20.following force: are will be observed invading the you further country, of be to your troops, the penetrate prevail thus against an by defenders into a solidarity not will the principles The greater the you. The and

21. Make forays in fertile country in order to supply your army with food.
21.in Make fertile to country forays supply in food. with your order army

22-1. Carefully study the well-being of your men, and do not overtax them.
22-1.them. of well-being do and the Carefully overtax your men, study not

22-2. Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength.
22-2.Concentrate your hoard your energy and strength.

22-3. Keep your army continually on the move, and devise unfathomable plans.
22-3.your the move, Keep plans. and devise continually on unfathomable army

23-1. Throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape, and they will prefer death to flight.
23-1.no into positions is and they soldiers to will whence there prefer death escape, Throw your flight.

23-2. If they will face death, there is nothing they may not achieve.
23-2.achieve. death, face they nothing will If not there is they may

23-3. Officers and men alike will put forth their uttermost strength.
23-3.put uttermost strength. forth their Officers and men alike will

24-1. Soldiers when in desperate straits lose the sense of fear.
24-1.lose of fear. the sense Soldiers when in desperate straits

24-2. If there is no place of refuge, they will stand firm.
24-2.there of refuge, If firm. they will no place stand is

24-3. If they are in hostile country, they will show a stubborn front.
24-3.front. hostile in show will are If stubborn country, they they a

24-4. If there is no help for it, they will fight hard.
24-4.there for it, If hard. they will no help fight is

25. Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the qui vive; without waiting to be asked, they will do your will; without restrictions, they will be faithful; without giving orders, they can be trusted.
25.can the trusted. do marshaled, will be will; qui vive; to restrictions, will the without will be waiting orders, faithful; without constantly to giving on be asked, they they be Thus, be soldiers they your without waiting without

26-1. Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts.
26-1.the and do Prohibit doubts. away with of omens, superstitious taking

26-2. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.
26-2.no be feared. calamity need Then, until death itself comes,

27. If our soldiers are not overburdened with money, it is not because they have a distaste for riches; if their lives are not unduly long, it is not because they are disinclined to longevity.
27.our it overburdened if is not have lives riches; not are not it soldiers they long, longevity. they money, is distaste with unduly because disinclined a because are not If their to are for

28-1. On the day they are ordered out to battle, your soldiers may weep, those sitting up bedewing their garments, and those lying down letting the tears run down their cheeks.
28-1.ordered their your run those On their bedewing lying out tears garments, cheeks. the may those and battle, down down up day to the letting soldiers they weep, are sitting

28-2. But let them once be brought to bay, and they will display the courage of a Chu or a Kuei.
28-2.a to Kuei. of or will bay, Chu display and But a them the be brought they courage let once

29-1. The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan.
29-1.tactician skillful to likened be shuai-jan. The the may

29-2. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the ChUng mountains.
29-2.shuai-jan Now is is a the found snake mountains. ChUng in that the

29-3. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both.
29-3.and strike both. its you attacked by strike at its you its by will at and you and by will at its head, attacked tail; will be head middle, and Strike tail be attacked head; be its tail,

30-1. Asked if an army can be made to imitate the shuai-jan, I should answer, Yes.
30-1.Asked can made army if be imitate answer, an the shuai-jan, should Yes. to I

30-2. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; yet if they are crossing a river in the same boat and are caught by a storm, they will come to each other's assistance just as the left hand helps the right.
30-2.assistance river left storm, right. they helps will as the enemies; to are yet in other's and boat a just come crossing For the men are Wu hand the are of the if by same caught they each the of and men Yueh a

31. Hence it is not enough to put one's trust in the tethering of horses, and the burying of chariot wheels in the ground.
31.it put not one's Hence trust enough in is the to tethering horses, the of wheels the of burying in and ground. chariot

32. The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.
32.courage an reach. of all set army which up is The must on one to manage to standard principle which

33. How to make the best of both strong and weak-- that is a question involving the proper use of ground.
33.the both ground. involving use that strong proper is and How of make a best of weak-- question to the

34. Thus the skillful general conducts his army just as though he were leading a single man, willy-nilly, by the hand.
34.man, army hand. single by he just willy-nilly, were as Thus the skillful leading conducts his though a the general

35. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus ensure secrecy; upright and just, and thus maintain order.
35.It of be a is general ensure to the thus and and business maintain upright thus just, order. quiet secrecy; and

36. He must be able to mystify his officers and men by false reports and appearances, and thus keep them in total ignorance.
36.and thus keep by ignorance. them in appearances, and total false reports must be able to mystify his officers and men He

37-1. By altering his arrangements and changing his plans, he keeps the enemy without definite knowledge.
37-1.By and his arrangements altering changing he definite his keeps the without knowledge. plans, enemy

37-2. By shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, he prevents the enemy from anticipating his purpose.
37-2.camp his routes, he enemy By purpose. the prevents and taking from anticipating shifting circuitous his

38-1. At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him.
38-1.acts the has kicks height behind away and him. critical up climbed ladder moment, then a one the leader of an army At like the who

38-2. He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand.
38-2.his He men territory deep carries before into hand. his he hostile shows

39. He burns his boats and breaks his cooking-pots; like a shepherd driving a flock of sheep, he drives his men this way and that, and nothing knows whither he is going.
39.He breaks flock sheep, a burns he drives this cooking-pots; and men he his his way of a and that, going. boats his nothing shepherd driving knows whither is and like

40. To muster his host and bring it into danger:-- this may be termed the business of the general.
40.general. may host it into termed be and of business muster danger:-- this the To his the bring

41. The different measures suited to the nine varieties of ground; the expediency of aggressive or defensive tactics; and the fundamental laws of human nature: these are things that must most certainly be studied.
41.defensive varieties nine and the suited or fundamental the ground; human of things different certainly nature: to expediency of are laws the must that of aggressive these most tactics; The studied. be measures

42. When invading hostile territory, the general principle is, that penetrating deeply brings cohesion; penetrating but a short way means dispersion.
42.a principle dispersion. but way deeply is, short brings that When means hostile cohesion; the general penetrating penetrating invading territory,

43-1. When you leave your own country behind, and take your army across neighborhood territory, you find yourself on critical ground.
43-1.find behind, ground. you on army and yourself across take When critical leave neighborhood own country your territory, you your

43-2. When there are means of communication on all four sides, the ground is one of intersecting highways.
43-2.four means of all the ground are intersecting is communication on one of sides, When there highways.

44-1. When you penetrate deeply into a country, it is serious ground.
44-1.you a country, When ground. it is deeply into serious penetrate

44-2. When you penetrate but a little way, it is facile ground.
44-2.you little way, When ground. it is but a facile penetrate

45-1. When you have the enemy's strongholds on your rear, and narrow passes in front, it is hemmed-in ground.
45-1.ground. narrow the on your in passes enemy's is it you rear, and hemmed-in When have front, strongholds

45-2. When there is no place of refuge at all, it is desperate ground.
45-2.is When no at place there all, of ground. desperate it refuge is

46-1. Therefore, on dispersive ground, I would inspire my men with unity of purpose.
46-1.dispersive Therefore, ground, my I on men would purpose. of with inspire unity

46-2. On facile ground, I would see that there is close connection between all parts of my army.
46-2.is I would there connection between ground, my all see that parts of close On facile army.

47. On contentious ground, I would hurry up my rear.
47.ground, contentious up hurry would rear. On my I

48-1. On open ground, I would keep a vigilant eye on my defenses.
48-1.defenses. would I eye vigilant ground, On my keep a open on

48-2. On ground of intersecting highways, I would consolidate my alliances.
48-2.I my alliances. would consolidate On ground of intersecting highways,

49-1. On serious ground, I would try to ensure a continuous stream of supplies.
49-1.ground, On I ensure would serious a try supplies. of continuous to stream

49-2. On difficult ground, I would keep pushing on along the road.
49-2.difficult keep pushing On road. on along I would the ground,

50-1. On hemmed-in ground, I would block any way of retreat.
50-1.block of retreat. any way On hemmed-in ground, I would

50-2. On desperate ground, I would proclaim to my soldiers the hopelessness of saving their lives.
50-2.On would to I desperate proclaim soldiers their ground, the hopelessness saving lives. my of

51. For it is the soldier's disposition to offer an obstinate resistance when surrounded, to fight hard when he cannot help himself, and to obey promptly when he has fallen into danger.
51.For disposition to hard surrounded, it when he himself, offer promptly help fallen is to and fight obstinate to obey danger. the cannot when resistance when he has into soldier's an

52-1. We cannot enter into alliance with neighboring princes until we are acquainted with their designs.
52-1.We alliance neighboring into cannot with until their enter we are with designs. princes acquainted

52-2. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country-- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.
52-2.with army an face march fit familiar the of the mountains its pitfalls are marshes and to unless we its country-- lead precipices, and on are forests, its the We swamps. and not

52-3. We shall be unable to turn natural advantages to account unless we make use of local guides.
52-3.to unable to advantages unless we be local make turn natural use of account We shall guides.

53. To be ignored of any one of the following four or five principles does not befit a warlike prince.
53.any ignored principles of following the not five of befit To a or one be does warlike prince. four

54-1. When a warlike prince attacks a powerful state, his generalship shows itself in preventing the concentration of the enemy's forces.
54-1.concentration powerful forces. the the shows state, of itself his When enemy's warlike in attacks a generalship preventing a prince

54-2. He overawes his opponents, and their allies are prevented from joining against him.
54-2.his He opponents, are and overawes prevented their him. against from allies joining

55-1. Hence he does not strive to ally himself with all and sundry, nor does he foster the power of other states.
55-1.Hence strive with to he ally nor himself does sundry, and foster not other he of the states. all does power

55-2. He carries out his own secret designs, keeping his antagonists in awe.
55-2.awe. own his his keeping out He in secret designs, carries antagonists

55-3. Thus he is able to capture their cities and overthrow their kingdoms.
55-3.kingdoms. to able and cities is Thus their capture their he overthrow

56. Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue orders without regard to previous arrangements; and you will be able to handle a whole army as though you had to do with but a single man.
56.rewards without rule, to regard to and a able to whole army you without with though man. arrangements; orders had will issue as do a you previous but to Bestow handle single regard be

57-1. Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; never let them know your design.
57-1.soldiers Confront with never the your let deed design. your them itself; know

57-2. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.
57-2.bright, outlook them is their before when tell it the When situation but bring the nothing is gloomy. eyes;

58. Place your army in deadly peril, and it will survive; plunge it into desperate straits, and it will come off in safety.
58.desperate it will plunge safety. come off straits, and in it into your army in deadly peril, and it will survive; Place

59. For it is precisely when a force has fallen into harm's way that is capable of striking a blow for victory.
59.For when fallen a it force that has is way harm's of precisely for capable blow striking victory. into is a

60. Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.
60.warfare Success is accommodating gained in ourselves by purpose. enemy's to carefully the

61. By persistently hanging on the enemy's flank, we shall succeed in the long run in killing the commander-in-chief.
61.commander-in-chief. in on flank, we long the the killing in persistently shall succeed the By hanging run enemy's

62. This is called ability to accomplish a thing by sheer cunning.
62.is accomplish a This cunning. thing by ability to sheer called

63. On the day that you take up your command, block the frontier passes, destroy the official tallies, and stop the passage of all emissaries.
63.frontier tallies, official passage the the emissaries. all and stop destroy passes, of the day that you take up your command, block the On

64. Be stern in the council-chamber, so that you may control the situation.
64.situation. council-chamber, the may you in Be the so that stern control

65. If the enemy leaves a door open, you must rush in.
65.the door open, If in. you must leaves a rush enemy

66. Forestall your opponent by seizing what he holds dear, and subtly contrive to time his arrival on the ground.
66.seizing opponent to by dear, holds his contrive he arrival Forestall on subtly what your time the ground. and

67. Walk in the path defined by rule, and accommodate yourself to the enemy until you can fight a decisive battle.
67.can rule, battle. you a to and fight the accommodate Walk decisive the enemy defined by yourself until in path

68. At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden, until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you.
68.you. the exhibit of a of enemy running opening; gives rapidity and hare, the be will the an At too coyness maiden, you for a afterwards late enemy first, then, emulate oppose to the it until
