Lv4-swap
X. TERRAIN
X.TERRAIN

1. Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) entangling ground; (3) temporizing ground; (4) narrow passes; (5) precipitous heights; (6) positions at a great distance from the enemy.
1.enemy. to We ground; kinds six wit: narrow (2) (1) temporizing (5) passes; may (6) heights; great ground; Sun positions distinguish of Accessible a (4) entangling at distance Tzu said: ground; the from (3) precipitous terrain,

2. Ground which can be freely traversed by both sides is called accessible.
2.accessible. freely be sides both can Ground called traversed by which is

3-1. With regard to ground of this nature, be before the enemy in occupying the raised and sunny spots, and carefully guard your line of supplies.
3-1.this before of the nature, With ground in be regard guard the sunny to supplies. and spots, carefully your of enemy raised and line occupying

3-2. Then you will be able to fight with advantage.
3-2.will you fight to able advantage. Then with be

4. Ground which can be abandoned but is hard to re-occupy is called entangling.
4.can Ground be hard abandoned which to but entangling. called re-occupy is is

5-1. From a position of this sort, if the enemy is unprepared, you may sally forth and defeat him.
5-1.him. unprepared, of if the may you this and forth a enemy is defeat From position sally sort,

5-2. But if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and you fail to defeat him, then, return being impossible, disaster will ensue.
5-2.defeat return being you ensue. impossible, disaster him, then, will fail to if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and But

6. When the position is such that neither side will gain by making the first move, it is called temporizing ground.
6.it neither ground. move, called by side is making will When temporizing position the such that gain first the is

7. In a position of this sort, even though the enemy should offer us an attractive bait, it will be advisable not to stir forth, but rather to retreat, thus enticing the enemy in his turn; then, when part of his army has come out, we may deliver our attack with advantage.
7.the rather enemy In should to offer a us retreat, an position attractive advisable bait, of it enticing not this but forth, thus sort, in enemy when even army will we though attack his part has may with his our out, then, be stir to the turn; of come deliver advantage.

8. With regard to narrow passes, if you can occupy them first, let them be strongly garrisoned and await the advent of the enemy.
8.regard you narrow can With occupy passes, them to first, if let be garrisoned await advent the them and of strongly enemy. the

9. Should the army forestall you in occupying a pass, do not go after him if the pass is fully garrisoned, but only if it is weakly garrisoned.
9.occupying the Should go a army do him is forestall not the fully you garrisoned. is if in if garrisoned, only it weakly pass, after pass but

10. With regard to precipitous heights, if you are beforehand with your adversary, you should occupy the raised and sunny spots, and there wait for him to come up.
10.are wait adversary, come the him spots, occupy for heights, up. raised should if there sunny with you to and and With beforehand regard your to you precipitous

11. If the enemy has occupied them before you, do not follow him, but retreat and try to entice him away.
11.try before away. and entice follow you, to him, do If him enemy but occupied them not retreat the has

12. If you are situated at a great distance from the enemy, and the strength of the two armies is equal, it is not easy to provoke a battle, and fighting will be to your disadvantage.
12.If the at equal, from a the is two and it easy to situated and provoke to strength are battle, enemy, distance is fighting a the disadvantage. be of you will your not armies great

13-1. These six are the principles connected with Earth.
13-1.the with Earth. principles connected six are These

13-2. The general who has attained a responsible post must be careful to study them.
13-2.post must to study be careful them. The general who has attained a responsible

14-1. Now an army is exposed to six several calamities, not arising from natural causes, but from faults for which the general is responsible.
14-1.an six is several Now calamities, exposed not army arising to from causes, from for the is natural faults general but responsible. which

14-2. These are: (1) Flight; (2) insubordination; (3) collapse; (4) ruin; (5) disorganization; (6) rout.
14-2.collapse; (4) disorganization; (6) ruin; (5) rout. These are: (1) Flight; (2) insubordination; (3)

15. Other conditions being equal, if one force is hurled against another ten times its size, the result will be the flight of the former.
15.ten result the flight the size, former. the will be its times of conditions being equal, if one force is hurled against another Other

16-1. When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is insubordination.
16-1.soldiers is and their weak, When insubordination. too officers are too the result the strong common

16-2. When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is collapse.
16-2.are is the common weak, When collapse. too soldiers too strong the result the and officers

17. When the higher officers are angry and insubordinate, and on meeting the enemy give battle on their own account from a feeling of resentment, before the commander-in-chief can tell whether or not he is in a position to fight, the result is ruin.
17.are own angry can and give insubordinate, whether and from enemy not their the a is before feeling tell When he on position the result resentment, to higher the on meeting officers account the commander-in-chief or in fight, ruin. is a battle of

18. When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixes duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization.
18.haphazard when is men, the not disorganization. the his are clear are there orders duties in and fixes ranks slovenly a and the manner, is assigned and result authority; when distinct; utter to officers formed When general weak without are no and

19. When a general, unable to estimate the enemy's strength, allows an inferior force to engage a larger one, or hurls a weak detachment against a powerful one, and neglects to place picked soldiers in the front rank, the result must be rout.
19.front larger must one, the force rout. neglects allows or to place one, an weak soldiers powerful a to the in engage a rank, unable detachment estimate result enemy's strength, a be against a picked When general, to the inferior hurls and

20. These are six ways of courting defeat, which must be carefully noted by the general who has attained a responsible post.
20.These of must courting are defeat, by which six noted carefully who ways responsible general a has post. be the attained

21. The natural formation of the country is the soldier's best ally; but a power of estimating the adversary, of controlling the forces of victory, and of shrewdly calculating difficulties, dangers and distances, constitutes the test of a great general.
21.formation power of victory, the best soldier's of a estimating the calculating the the and dangers difficulties, adversary, constitutes distances, a but great the is controlling of The of country and natural general. forces ally; of shrewdly test of

22-1. He who knows these things, and in fighting puts his knowledge into practice, will win his battles.
22-1.puts these things, fighting knowledge into knows his practice, and in will win his He who battles.

22-2. He who knows them not, nor practices them, will surely be defeated.
22-2.defeated. not, them will them, knows He be nor practices who surely

23. If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight, even though the ruler forbid it; if fighting will not result in victory, then you must not fight even at the ruler's bidding.
23.If you to fighting then result even not forbid fight, will in victory, sure not then the though is must must victory, if fight you ruler bidding. at the fighting even ruler's result it; in

24. The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom.
24.is and fame protect fearing advances thought country his without good do sovereign, general of service without disgrace, whose his and coveting the is retreats only for jewel to The kingdom. the who

25. Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.
25.as unto they upon into soldiers look as your will and own by Regard death. sons, follow you them they will your children, stand beloved the deepest you even your valleys; and

26. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose.
26.are to indulgent, then but felt; unable soldiers authority your unable be commands; your of to your and likened children; they but any If, for moreover, practical however, kind-hearted, to incapable, you must quelling useless purpose. are make enforce disorder: spoilt

27. If we know that our own men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the enemy is not open to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
27.If own but unaware attack, we that the not are we is halfway know men open are a to attack, victory. that enemy have condition to gone only towards our in

28. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, but are unaware that our own men are not in a condition to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
28.If enemy that own unaware we men are a open we in halfway know is condition our attack, to attack, victory. that not have but are gone only towards the to

29. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, and also know that our men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the nature of the ground makes fighting impracticable, we have still gone only halfway towards victory.
29.have are halfway the gone know victory. of attack, a that ground in and attack, fighting that to the we impracticable, our we still that but enemy only open to men towards are unaware makes If know the is also condition nature

30. Hence the experienced soldier, once in motion, is never bewildered; once he has broken camp, he is never at a loss.
30.Hence once never in the motion, has is experienced he once he soldier, a camp, at is loss. bewildered; broken never

31. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, you may make your victory complete.
31.Hence know will stand victory the in doubt; know enemy Earth, you your saying: the Heaven not know and know complete. If if you yourself, your may make victory you and

