Lv4-swap
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS
VIII.VARIATION IN TACTICS

1. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his commands from the sovereign, collects his army and concentrates his forces.
1.army general forces. his concentrates from receives and the his Sun his said: sovereign, war, the commands collects Tzu In

2-1. When in difficult country, do not encamp.
2-1.When in do not difficult country, encamp.

2-2. In country where high roads intersect, join hands with your allies.
2-2.country intersect, join In allies. hands with high roads your where

2-3. Do not linger in dangerously isolated positions.
2-3.Do not dangerously isolated linger in positions.

2-4. In hemmed-in situations, you must resort to stratagem.
2-4.you to stratagem. must resort hemmed-in situations, In

2-5. In desperate position, you must fight.
2-5.fight. must you position, desperate In

3. There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must be not attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.
3.There which must besieged, armies not not which must be positions not be which the contested, not attacked, roads of must followed, be sovereign commands which obeyed. must towns are which be must not be

4. The general who thoroughly understands the advantages that accompany variation of tactics knows how to handle his troops.
4.troops. of thoroughly advantages that knows tactics understands handle to general accompany variation his The who how the

5. The general who does not understand these, may be well acquainted with the configuration of the country, yet he will not be able to turn his knowledge to practical account.
5.understand practical well knowledge configuration The yet country, be these, his he account. general with not will be to able the who may turn to acquainted does the not of

6. So, the student of war who is unversed in the art of war of varying his plans, even though he be acquainted with the Five Advantages, will fail to make the best use of his men.
6.men. art of be unversed is of with his war he Five the war fail will best varying So, to who in of the acquainted plans, make use the student even his of though Advantages, the

7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.
7.wise blended of advantage disadvantage Hence together. of and leader's plans, will be in considerations the

8. If our expectation of advantage be tempered in this way, we may succeed in accomplishing the essential part of our schemes.
8.If advantage this be our tempered succeed in expectation may we the of our accomplishing of essential schemes. way, in part

9. If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune.
9.are an seize extricate may to misfortune. from advantage, we ready always ourselves on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we If,

10. Reduce the hostile chiefs by inflicting damage on them; and make trouble for them, and keep them constantly engaged; hold out specious allurements, and make them rush to any given point.
10.Reduce inflicting them, keep for the them constantly out on make hold any hostile damage specious and and allurements, and point. chiefs engaged; them make trouble rush to given by them;

11. The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable.
11.us our to of rely not not not on readiness the but enemy's the on The to receive on art his but rather of that not our war fact likelihood on teaches we the coming, own him; chance attacking, the have unassailable. made position of

12. There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.
12.of be sensitive is over-solicitude hasty which to worry by which (5) his (3) trouble. for him (4) shame; men, capture; which temper, exposes provoked delicacy a to are to dangerous and which honor affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads a can insults; There five faults may

13. These are the five besetting sins of a general, ruinous to the conduct of war.
13.These besetting of five are sins general, of the ruinous to conduct war. a the

14-1. When an army is overthrown and its leader slain, the cause will surely be found among these five dangerous faults.
14-1.among its faults. found five cause leader these will slain, When dangerous army surely overthrown and the be an is

14-2. Let them be a subject of meditation.
14-2.Let them subject of be a meditation.

