Lv3-swap
I. LAYING PLANS


1. Sun Tzu said: is vital State. of The to of art the war importance


2-1. It life and matter is ruin. of to safety a or a to death, road either


2-2. Hence is of on account inquiry subject which a can neglected. be it no


3. The factors, war, deliberations, art by governed one's then, is be taken when the into obtaining conditions to the five field. account in to constant seeking of determine in


4. These The are: The Law; (5) (1) discipline. Heaven; Moral and Commander; (4) Earth; (3) (2) Method


5,6. The people be follow ruler, regardless their Moral to causes accord that in with they so of him complete their the lives, will danger. by Law any undismayed


7. Heaven and seasons. night day, and heat, times and signifies cold


8. Earth chances open danger the death. and passes; of small; ground and and and narrow comprises great security; distances, life


9. The wisdom, virtues courage stands Commander sincerity, and benevolence, for strictness. of the


10. By graduations roads officers, subdivisions, and of to of the by the and in be among reach marshaling discipline the control which rank the army may expenditure. maintenance of the the military supplies its understood the method of proper are army,


11. These be knows familiar to general: fail. he them victorious; he heads be knows will them every who should five will who not


12. Therefore, wise:-- military the a basis deliberations, be determine of let this your conditions, in to seeking in the made them comparison, when


13-1. (1) Which two law? Moral imbued the the with sovereigns is of


13-2. (2) generals two of has ability? the Which most


13-3. (3) the With lie and from Earth? whom derived Heaven advantages


13-4. (4) On side enforced? most discipline rigorously which is


13-5. (5) army Which is stronger?


13-6. (6) On more and are officers highly trained? men which side


13-7. (7) which army reward in and constancy is both In there greater the punishment?


14. By forecast considerations means victory these seven can of defeat. or I


15-1. The be to in hearkens upon and my general retained that one it, a acts command! conquer: such let will counsel


15-2. The a counsel hearkens acts suffer not nor will general dismissed! be my to it, one that upon such let defeat:--


16. While avail of heading also my of profit and over beyond rules. helpful counsel, the circumstances any yourself the ordinary


17. According are one circumstances should plans. one's as modify favorable,


18. All warfare on deception. based is


19. Hence, when seem believe when we to near. inactive; we using must able forces, him are are enemy away, we seem must away; our attack, near, make far must we when must are the believe when make unable; far we we we


20-1. Hold entice out the baits enemy. to


20-2. Feign him. disorder, and crush


21-1. If he him. at is secure all be points, for prepared


21-2. If evade is in superior him. strength, he


22-1. If is choleric opponent seek him. irritate your to temper, of


22-2. Pretend he to may that weak, be grow arrogant.


23-1. If taking ease, rest. his no give is him he


23-2. If are forces united, them. his separate


24. Attack is expected. appear are you where he him where not unprepared,


25. These beforehand. leading devices, be victory, to divulged must military not


26-1. Now wins battle ere is calculations battle fought. who the temple the his many in general makes a


26-2. The battle a loses beforehand. who but general few calculations makes


26-3. Thus many more at to calculations no and all! lead few defeat: do to calculations how much calculation victory,


26-4. It who to attention foresee to or that can is this likely point is I lose. win by
