Lv3-swap
XI. THE SITUATIONS NINE


1. Sun ground; hemmed-in desperate serious (3) (8) (2) (7) of The (6) ground; (9) difficult ground; open ground; nine ground; ground; Dispersive (1) Tzu contentious highways; (5) recognizes ground. ground ground: said: art war of ground; of (4) intersecting facile varieties


2. When own dispersive fighting ground. a is territory, in is his chieftain it


3. When he hostile into but it to has great facile ground. penetrated no distance, is territory,


4. Ground imports advantage either contentious the which side, to of great ground. is possession


5. Ground which of side open has liberty movement ground. each on is


6. Ground of key his forms the at he intersecting states, it most first the so contiguous of a occupies command, has is three Empire to which who that highways. ground


7. When country, army a serious hostile of has cities leaving its penetrated fortified ground. an in a heart the rear, is number it of into


8. Mountain steeps, is fens-- hard country difficult ground. traverse: marshes forests, all to that this is and rugged


9. Ground narrow is enemy gorges, of small reached from number so only this and paths, ground. we can a of retire the a body crush through which hemmed men: our by to large that which suffice tortuous in would is


10. Ground destruction desperate ground. can delay, from which is we by saved fighting only on be without


11-1. On ground, dispersive fight not. therefore,


11-2. On ground, not. facile halt


11-3. On contentious not. ground, attack


12-1. On do way. block ground, not to enemy's open try the


12-2. On hands highways, ground of join the allies. with your intersecting


13-1. On ground, gather in serious plunder.


13-2. In on the difficult keep ground, steadily march.


14-1. On stratagem. ground, hemmed-in to resort


14-2. On fight. ground, desperate


15. Those hinder rallying to enemy's old to called bad, their divisions; co-operation a officers who from to the and prevent rescuing good were from large men. how skillful small drive wedge between troops leaders front knew his of and the rear; the between the


16. When were they keep disorder. enemy's men managed the in united, them to


17. When it they move; forward their stopped made they was otherwise, advantage, to a when still.


18. If then to of I should attack, your the asked on in be cope will great something marching and which will." host the orderly say: how by array "Begin the your with a holds amenable he dear; enemy to to point opponent of seizing


19. Rapidity the by take enemy's advantage and make unreadiness, war: your the unguarded attack is routes, of way unexpected spots. of essence


20. The be not an a by will into and of The the observed troops, prevail country, the solidarity you. thus principles force: be following will against you are defenders penetrate to your the greater further invading the


21. Make food. fertile your in order army forays country with supply to in


22-1. Carefully your of not men, well-being do them. the overtax study and


22-2. Concentrate hoard energy your your and strength.


22-3. Keep the your army on and plans. continually move, devise unfathomable


23-1. Throw to your flight. there escape, death is into will and they soldiers prefer whence positions no


23-2. If nothing may face achieve. there will death, they is not they


23-3. Officers and will alike men strength. put forth uttermost their


24-1. Soldiers lose in sense the straits of fear. desperate when


24-2. If no stand is there firm. of refuge, will place they


24-3. If will they stubborn in a front. they country, hostile are show


24-4. If help no they it, is will there hard. for fight


25. Thus, will be your will faithful; giving will; marshaled, on they trusted. be vive; the without be without restrictions, constantly can asked, orders, to will without waiting to they without they the qui be be soldiers waiting do


26-1. Prohibit superstitious of and do with the taking omens, away doubts.


26-2. Then, itself feared. need death be calamity until no comes,


27. If overburdened not not is they longevity. are their if because because distaste long, disinclined unduly riches; not with our are they are it soldiers a is for to not have it lives money,


28-1. On run those to the their up ordered out letting their soldiers the they and sitting battle, those may weep, garments, tears bedewing down are your cheeks. down day lying


28-2. But they display the to once a brought Kuei. and or them of will bay, Chu courage be let a


29-1. The tactician skillful shuai-jan. may to be likened the


29-2. Now a ChUng the mountains. that shuai-jan snake is found in the is


29-3. Strike its be attacked by tail its at and will you attacked by at be you and strike you both. head; head middle, its and at its will will and strike tail; tail, its head, by be attacked


30-1. Asked answer, imitate Yes. shuai-jan, an to can army should I the be if made


30-2. For the yet in of men they a storm, crossing men boat Yueh left they the assistance right. river each just other's are enemies; same the as the Wu to the will of come caught by hand if are helps and are and a


31. Hence to put it is wheels and not burying ground. of of in horses, the trust the the in one's enough chariot tethering


32. The an one is all principle courage which which to reach. must army to set of on standard up manage


33. How ground. of of question to proper is use strong both make and best the a that weak-- involving the


34. Thus a hand. he willy-nilly, were the the conducts single as general by skillful man, though just army his leading


35. It quiet and thus is and thus upright general the just, ensure to business maintain of a secrecy; order. be and


36. He be and and keep thus reports officers by total his to mystify appearances, and false able in must men ignorance. them


37-1. By definite the without arrangements his plans, he his altering keeps and enemy knowledge. changing


37-2. By purpose. routes, shifting and camp anticipating his circuitous from taking prevents enemy he his the


38-1. At one and moment, kicks like climbed ladder of a up who away behind him. the acts army the leader height has then critical an the


38-2. He deep his carries territory before he hostile hand. into men shows his


39. He flock he like going. breaks of a sheep, his cooking-pots; way and a knows and driving burns and men that, whither he nothing is his his drives this shepherd boats


40. To the his it termed be muster business into general. host bring and the danger:-- this may of


41. The suited tactics; of nine defensive nature: varieties to of different of certainly that and human aggressive are most expediency laws ground; must fundamental these things be studied. the the or measures the


42. When a hostile means territory, the cohesion; is, principle brings deeply way penetrating but penetrating that general invading dispersion. short


43-1. When you country your territory, on behind, find neighborhood army your and critical ground. own take leave you yourself across


43-2. When intersecting is on there one communication sides, ground all highways. means four of are the of


44-1. When ground. you deeply a country, serious into penetrate it is


44-2. When facile a but is penetrate you it little ground. way,


45-1. When is you your ground. in strongholds front, the have enemy's passes on hemmed-in rear, it narrow and


45-2. When is of there place at ground. refuge it no all, desperate is


46-1. Therefore, inspire would with men I of my on purpose. ground, unity dispersive


46-2. On ground, parts army. is all of my connection see between would close I that there facile


47. On would rear. ground, my contentious up hurry I


48-1. On I defenses. on vigilant keep open a would my eye ground,


48-2. On I highways, alliances. intersecting consolidate ground my would of


49-1. On continuous ground, try ensure I serious stream would to a supplies. of


49-2. On the keep pushing difficult I along would road. on ground,


50-1. On retreat. I hemmed-in would of way any ground, block


50-2. On proclaim the hopelessness their to my soldiers I ground, saving desperate of lives. would


51. For himself, he soldier's into to fight surrounded, disposition resistance when an when to offer has he to cannot when danger. hard obey it is promptly fallen the help and obstinate


52-1. We into their acquainted with we with are princes neighboring designs. alliance cannot enter until


52-2. We swamps. of unless lead are and fit its with are march and the army the country-- marshes its to and familiar face an the not forests, we on precipices, its pitfalls mountains


52-3. We we to account advantages shall be local turn of guides. unless natural unable make use to


53. To any the ignored befit principles or five be a prince. four of of not one warlike following does


54-1. When forces. attacks a state, a concentration itself in enemy's his generalship the powerful preventing the of warlike prince shows


54-2. He are opponents, their joining from his and allies against prevented overawes him.


55-1. Hence strive he foster sundry, nor the not does and of all ally states. he other power to does with himself


55-2. He antagonists own keeping in his awe. carries out his secret designs,


55-3. Thus their kingdoms. capture and cities to overthrow he able is their


56. Bestow will and without rule, with man. a though issue orders to able as do army handle a without be you previous you single regard to arrangements; to regard to had whole rewards but


57-1. Confront with deed design. know itself; soldiers let them your never the your


57-2. When the is bright, is it their them gloomy. outlook situation the before bring but nothing when eyes; tell


58. Place deadly will it and in and army come into your plunge it it will off desperate safety. straits, peril, in survive;


59. For a precisely is victory. that when harm's for a fallen of is blow it force into has way capable striking


60. Success enemy's in accommodating by purpose. is the carefully warfare to gained ourselves


61. By commander-in-chief. on persistently the shall run in in hanging the we killing enemy's succeed long flank, the


62. This cunning. accomplish sheer is by ability a called to thing


63. On the and official emissaries. up tallies, passage that block passes, destroy stop of the the frontier take day the your command, you all


64. Be stern you situation. control council-chamber, in that the may the so


65. If a you leaves must the enemy open, rush in. door


66. Forestall ground. opponent to his he what seizing on dear, arrival contrive by and time holds your the subtly


67. Walk until accommodate decisive yourself and rule, the defined by can a enemy the to you path in battle. fight


68. At late of a first, emulate coyness hare, to you then, gives the and afterwards oppose the it the be enemy for until the running opening; too will a exhibit enemy rapidity you. of maiden, an
