Lv3-swap
IV. TACTICAL DISPOSITIONS


1. Sun of put fighters themselves old Tzu good the first said: opportunity of then The enemy. and waited an of the beyond defeat, for defeating possibility


2. To defeating is provided the himself. by the the enemy enemy opportunity of ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but secure


3. Thus enemy. but is secure himself make cannot able defeating of good against defeat, the the fighter certain to


4. Hence conquer without to do being able it. the saying: One may know how to


5. Security defeat the taking the enemy means offensive. against defeat implies defensive tactics; ability to


6. Standing the strength; attacking, on strength. a superabundance indicates insufficient of defensive


7-1. The is skilled most the recesses in skilled he forth defense heights is the general who in the in of flashes heaven. who attack from topmost of hides secret earth;


7-2. Thus complete. on hand ability to other, the we that victory the protect ourselves; is on one a have


8. To it only herd when ken the not common within the see acme the is victory is of excellence. of


9. Neither done!" conquer acme if you the and of says, Empire it fight and "Well is the whole excellence


10. To lift strength; is of great no the sight; is see sharp hear the hair is noise a sun autumn thunder to of sign no of moon ear. of and an sign quick to no sign


11. What ease. only a is one but wins, clever winning in ancients who not with the called excels fighter


12. Hence courage. neither him nor wisdom bring his for reputation for victories credit


13-1. He wins his making no battles by mistakes.


13-2. Making establishes is conquering what victory, of enemy means certainty that no is it the mistakes an already defeated. for


14. Hence does the moment defeat enemy. for defeating not miss the impossible, and skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes the


15. Thus it the victory been the is won, whereas is strategist first who looks that victorious destined has seeks to defeat victory. in he fights battle after and afterwards for war only


16. The thus in his method success. power to it is control and discipline; leader cultivates the moral law, and strictly adheres to consummate


17. In Balancing firstly, Victory. fourthly, chances; of Measurement; of quantity; secondly, respect fifthly, military thirdly, we have, Estimation Calculation; of method,


18. Measurement Measurement; to of and chances of Victory to chances. existence Balancing quantity; Balancing to Calculation; of to Earth; Estimation of quantity to owes Calculation its Estimation


19. A scale one, grain. the a pound's is against weight as victorious single opposed placed a routed a in army to


20. The force a into conquering bursting the chasm waters like a onrush thousand pent-up is of a fathoms deep. of
