Lv3-swap
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE


1-1. Sun ways with fire. of attacking Tzu said: There are five


1-2. The to stores; burn is soldiers second the burn burn third is and trains; camp; to the magazines; to to is amongst to the hurl their baggage the first fourth in fifth is enemy. the is burn arsenals dropping fire


2-1. In to attack, we order available. must have out an means carry


2-2. The always in readiness. be kept material for raising fire should


3. There season a with fire, days is conflagration. special and for making for starting a attacks proper


4. The all when wind. the of special very the days moon the or the dry; Sieve, Cross-bar; Wing in for these proper are is are the constellations the days is is Wall, rising four the when weather those of the season


5-1. In fire, attacking one to should with meet be 6. developments: five prepared possible


5-2. (1) out from camp, respond with When without. once at inside to an attack fire enemy's breaks


7. (2) time fire, attack. your do soldiers but and remain the If not is quiet, outbreak of enemy's bide there an


8. (3) height, stay with if that you not, is are. force attack, an where of practicable; if it the flames has reached its When follow the up


9. (4) is possible fire not without, to break for deliver make a to with If it out attack assault do but moment. it within, your at favorable an from wait


10-1. (5) be of it. to windward When you start a fire,


10-2. Do not the leeward. attack from


11. A long, but breeze soon a night falls. wind that rises in the daytime lasts


12. In connected must developments be with every five the fire army, kept of calculated, the days. stars and watch for proper known, the a the movements


13. Hence aid who those intelligence; to use attack who accession fire show water aid as strength. an gain an use to attack an of the those as the


14. By means enemy be an of may but his water, not robbed all belongings. intercepted, of


15. Unhappy of general to without and fate attacks the spirit win the of of is stagnation. for his battles cultivating result is one who waste enterprise; succeed in time and the his tries


16. Hence enlightened his plans well good the resources. the ahead; ruler lays general cultivates saying: his The


17. Move there gained; be the unless to critical. is fight not something is position unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless not


18. No should field troops merely ruler to into gratify put his the own no should a simply of spleen; fight out general pique. battle


19. If it advantage, a your is make move; you to if not, where are. forward stay


20. Anger content. to change be may time may by gladness; vexation in succeeded


21. But kingdom destroyed has can a never once come that again been into nor the ever brought to being; dead back can life. be


22-1. Hence caution. heedful, is general good ruler the of and the enlightened full


22-2. This way is to at keep the peace a intact. army and country an


