Lv3-swap
VII. MANEUVERING


1. Sun commands war, Tzu In his receives from said: general the the sovereign.


2. Having and camp. army different pitching thereof he and his forces, elements before harmonize his an concentrated blend collected must the


3-1. After nothing is maneuvering, there that, difficult. comes than which tactical more


3-2. The turning in consists maneuvering direct, and of gain. tactical devious into into the the difficulty misfortune


4. Thus, and take him, to artifice of circuitous knowledge though goal enticing way, after and to him, out DEVIATION. the of contrive reach shows to of route, the before long the a starting enemy after the


5. Maneuvering army is an advantageous; multitude, with undisciplined dangerous. an most with


6-1. If order are the fully will set that chances in in you snatch to an march late. be too army a you advantage, equipped


6-2. On to hand, column the other and purpose baggage the sacrifice for detach involves its a of stores. the flying


7. Thus, doing in roll if into the their marches double halting divisions your will of wrest leaders hands you night, and to enemy. hundred a distance without at day your men order covering buff-coats, or three of the order the a usual the fall advantage, forced an all LI make stretch, up to


8. The destination. will stronger of will will fall this its and men your only jaded one-tenth reach behind, plan on army ones the in be front,


9. If in you goal. force order the enemy, of half you leader LI reach your march fifty only division, and will to outmaneuver first your will the lose the


10. If with of your object, march army you arrive. the thirty same two-thirds will LI


11. We bases then it its take baggage-train may without that lost. it is is provisions lost; is army without lost; of supply it an without


12. We cannot our until acquainted into are enter of designs we alliances with neighbors. the


13. We with army and unless and its an face fit forests, its are mountains marshes we not on the lead familiar the are and pitfalls its country-- to of march swamps. precipices, the


14. We of unless be unable advantage account use we shall to turn make local to guides. natural


15. In practice succeed. dissimulation, you will war, and


16. Whether circumstances. decided troops, divide by concentrate must to be your to or


17. Let the be of the wind, forest. that that rapidity your compactness your of


18. In a raiding be immovability like fire, and like plundering mountain. in


19. Let a when impenetrable plans your thunderbolt. fall and move, as be and you like dark night,


20. When spoil for let the your men; countryside, benefit the amongst territory, the you cut you it new a be soldiery. of divided plunder up into allotments when capture


21. Ponder move. before make deliberate and you a


22-1. He artifice deviation. will of the has conquer who learnt


22-2. Such of is the art maneuvering.


23-1. The of Book On says: not the far Army enough: field and spoken word the institution battle, hence Management the drums. of does of gongs carry


23-2. Nor objects enough: banners the flags. and can clearly seen of be ordinary institution hence


24. Gongs whereby on drums, may and are point. and of the means the banners particular flags, be host and ears focused eyes one


25-1. The retreat to alone, is to for impossible body, it host single for a advance the cowardly or alone. the either united forming thus brave


25-2. This of of masses is the handling men. art large


26. In of then, use signal-fires flags drums, means and ears day, of make of eyes by of and night-fighting, influencing and in a banners, and the much fighting your as army.


27. A mind. presence his of be a be may army spirit; robbed robbed of its whole commander-in-chief of may


28. Now begun has bent only flag; a evening, mind noonday is and his camp. it on morning; in by soldier's the to is spirit keenest in the returning to


29-1. A is its is an when clever when it army to and inclined spirit but keen, sluggish return. therefore, attacks it general, avoids


29-2. This studying is moods. art of the


30. Disciplined of retaining amongst self-possession. the enemy:-- the appearance is await and this art the and hubbub of disorder calm, to


31. To the and is near the this enemy while strength. goal it, to the far be art enemy to husbanding be wait is is the at enemy while still the toiling is of one's ease struggling, while well-fed from famished:--


32. To studying this circumstances. banners an refrain from is army whose to an in in the of attacking drawn are enemy from calm intercepting perfect array:-- refrain confident up and order, art


33. It is not comes when oppose axiom to military the enemy, uphill him against downhill. nor to a he advance


34. Do soldiers pursue keen. flight; whose is temper not attack who do not simulates enemy an


35-1. Do not enemy. the swallow bait offered by


35-2. Do army is returning that home. with not interfere an


36-1. When outlet an leave surround free. army, you an


36-2. Do not hard. foe too a desperate press


37. Such is of art the warfare.
