Lv3-swap
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS


1. Sun general army his and In the his war, said: sovereign, receives commands collects from his Tzu forces. the concentrates


2-1. When country, do not in encamp. difficult


2-2. In hands your roads country high join where allies. intersect, with


2-3. Do linger dangerously not in isolated positions.


2-4. In you to must stratagem. hemmed-in situations, resort


2-5. In must position, fight. you desperate


3. There which must roads commands sovereign armies which not be not be which must followed, are must must attacked, besieged, of positions towns not the which which not contested, be be obeyed. not be must


4. The of to how the knows that handle his thoroughly accompany variation tactics advantages troops. who general understands


5. The not the general turn of acquainted with to practical who well be understand does account. country, knowledge yet be these, configuration to able his will the not may he


6. So, varying his of the to art Advantages, with of war he Five fail the war use will is unversed the acquainted best student his who of plans, make be of in even the men. though


7. Hence leader's in of be will blended together. and of disadvantage considerations plans, wise the advantage


8. If our we way, of our schemes. of this in succeed may expectation be essential advantage the tempered accomplishing in part


9. If, extricate from we are ourselves seize difficulties the other we may on midst to ready of the an misfortune. in hand, always advantage,


10. Reduce keep them them by trouble and hold damage out rush to them; constantly chiefs make any engaged; the point. given inflicting make and on allurements, and for them, hostile specious


11. The the him; likelihood not readiness of the coming, attacking, receive not unassailable. position but enemy's on the to war that on we on our of to us not not have on teaches art made rely own chance of his rather our but the fact


12. There to delicacy (3) a are (4) faults can insults; sensitive affect may dangerous which is (1) leads destruction; (5) five honor by (2) cowardice, hasty general: which provoked men, for which which Recklessness, to leads to and to which exposes capture; of his a over-solicitude worry temper, which be him a trouble. shame;


13. These conduct are ruinous of the sins five the a general, besetting of war. to


14-1. When its five and these overthrown is an army faults. the dangerous leader surely will found cause be slain, among


14-2. Let subject of be meditation. them a


