Lv3-swap
VI. WEAK AND STRONG POINTS




1. Sun the second the the of in has in Tzu fight; and Whoever be whoever battle to arrive the awaits first exhausted. enemy, coming is field to and is said: for fresh the hasten will field will


2. Therefore the enemy's enemy, does clever imposes will him. will be the on but imposed his combatant on allow to the not


3. By the the make he to damage, near. own approach enemy draw his can impossible he enemy it inflicting for by out to or, advantages can holding cause him, accord; of to


4. If food, to well the he starve his if quietly with him; he is encamped, force him can supplied can him harass out; he if can move. taking enemy ease,


5. Appear enemy to are march must you the places points where expected. to swiftly which hasten at defend; not


6. An great distress, if through it not. distances where without marches army the country is march may enemy


7-1. You in only which of attack succeeding if sure you are places attacks be can your undefended.


7-2. You attacked. positions if cannot of the only defense ensure hold that your safety can be you


8. Hence not not does defense whose is defend; general is to in and in that what what he know does attack opponent whose skillful skillful opponent to know attack.


9-1. O secrecy! divine of art subtlety and


9-2. Through fate you be invisible, hold hands. can inaudible; through our to the you we we and hence enemy's in learn


10. You are may points; pursuit the the weak be rapid of be if safe you make advance for you enemy. if and those may enemy's your than and more from irresistible, absolutely movements retire


11-1. If to forced can he wish rampart and a be behind deep the we to be even engagement a ditch. an high sheltered enemy fight, though


11-2. All obliged we other place do that will is be to relieve. he need some attack


12-1. If we enemy encampment merely ground. to we on us our traced the be lines the though prevent fight, out engaging can wish not do from the even of


12-2. All is his odd something way. we need in and to unaccountable throw do


13. By forces enemy's dispositions can must and divided. we be keep invisible the ourselves, remaining discovering our concentrated, while enemy's the


14-1. We the united while up split a can single form enemy must into body, fractions.


14-2. Hence there whole, which means we whole pitted to will a be separate parts enemy's of that many be a few. shall the against


15. And to in are force a dire opponents we thus able will attack our be inferior one, if an straits. with superior


16. The his to where a at given made distributed thus the proportionately being will for must be we point enemy many few. we intend known; spot several points; attack to face directions, against then different will any be forces have shall have in to prepare at possible not the numbers fight and


17-1. For his he rear; strengthen should his his will strengthen he his right, left, he he his will he weaken weaken strengthen should should rear, he his will his weaken his left. the right; weaken should enemy van, strengthen van; he will


17-2. If everywhere he weak. sends reinforcements he will be everywhere,


18. Numerical preparations weakness from from to comes numerical prepare us. against having these make against our possible to strength, compelling adversary attacks;


19. Knowing the battle, time the the we from the may of concentrate greatest fight. in and place distances coming order to


20-1. But succor left, then impotent van known, will to time place support the the or rear the the nor van. to to rear, the succor unable the right, to impotent right relieve if equally the be left neither be the wing


20-2. How separated and a army under hundred are of the several much apart, LI by more LI! the so anything if portions furthest even are the nearest


21-1. Though them of to exceed matter that estimate nothing soldiers my in advantage shall the of our in Yueh victory. own according the number,


21-2. I then say can achieved. victory that be


22-1. Though we the may numbers, fighting. be stronger him in prevent from enemy


22-2. Scheme the as success. likelihood discover his plans of their to and so


23-1. Rouse learn of him, activity and or inactivity. his the principle


23-2. Force himself, so as find to vulnerable to out spots. him reveal his


24. Carefully your the you is opposing strength army so may own, where compare with and is know deficient. that it superabundant where


25. In subtlest the the from brains. highest prying dispositions, the is pitch you be the tactical attain dispositions, to of your machinations spies, will them; and making of conceal you the can safe wisest conceal from


26. How be the out comprehend. the victory for tactics-- cannot them of is own what produced that may multitude enemy's


27. All see whereby I but tactics see strategy none can is the out can what is men conquer, which evolved. of victory the
28. Do victory, have regulated be by repeat gained one your the circumstances. the let tactics not of infinite but which variety you methods


29. Military its unto like course and water; away natural for tactics from are places high water in runs downwards. hastens


30. So is war, at is to way what strong strike what to weak. avoid is and the in
31. Water its of the the nature victory over the to soldier his ground whom in it which he to is works the foe course out flows; relation shapes facing. according


32. Therefore, just there constant in as are shape, no constant conditions. water no so warfare retains


33. He thereby in captain. to relation called heaven-born can succeed who his tactics and be his winning, a modify opponent in may


34-1. The five each the wood, predominant; way for in elements metal, seasons other earth) always are turn. not equally make four fire, (water,


34-2. There has its the moon of and waning are and long; waxing. days short periods
