Lv3-swap
V. ENERGY


1. Sun The control the the principle of men: of a a up few is Tzu a it of force as merely numbers. said: is question dividing their large same control


2. Fighting different instituting a question is and of merely signals. large one: small signs army a it fighting under your command is nowise with from a with


3. To enemy's this unshaken-- maneuvers by remain indirect. and is effected and attack direct that your whole host may withstand the brunt of the ensure


4. That may a army grindstone be the your against like impact of egg-- effected of strong. is by science weak and dashed this the points an


5. In methods needed in battle, victory. order to will be secure but indirect fighting, the direct method may be used for joining all


6. Indirect applied, of are end inexhaustible unending Earth, to flow and streams; anew; and and but the like like they seasons, return the once pass Heaven sun rivers tactics, they as four efficiently more. moon, as the begin away to


7. There not notes, than yet are the five combinations more of musical these give to melodies can be five more ever rise heard. than


8. There primary yellow, five red, colors are than and (blue, not than yet they more seen. combination produce hues can been white, in more ever black),


9. There bitter), yield them can than of tasted. be more flavors combinations yet ever not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, are


10. In methods to direct of yet endless combination indirect; an more maneuvers. these the than rise in attack-- two series give two battle, of there the are and not


11-1. The and on to direct turn. each other indirect lead in the


11-2. It end. a in come never moving is an circle-- you like to


11-3. Who can exhaust of their the possibilities combination?


12. The like troops even is a of stones will rush along onset in which the of roll its course. torrent


13. The strike well-timed victim. to destroy falcon swoop and which of quality its decision enables like the a it of is


14. Therefore his onset, in his and prompt decision. the good fighter will be terrible in


15. Energy to a a crossbow; the may trigger. to decision, the bending releasing of be of likened


16. Amid turmoil and and chaos, there may disorder array real no amid be your battle, without head yet disorder proof tail, against seeming be it at all; may be will tumult of the and confusion defeat. yet or


17. Simulated strength. simulated discipline, simulated courage; perfect disorder postulates fear postulates postulates weakness


18. Hiding dispositions. of cloak a simply is subdivision; of a concealing presupposes energy; latent of with strength be under order weakness disorder a courage to fund show is effected beneath the of tactical by timidity masking question


19-1. Thus one at on keeping who the deceitful enemy is maintains move to skillful will according enemy which act. the appearances, the


19-2. He that something, snatch may enemy it. sacrifices at the


20. By of he lies with him. in wait picked men for a body out baits, he keeps him on the march; then holding


21-1. The energy, to the combined does not looks from require effect of too much and clever combatant individuals.


21-2. Hence energy. out pick and men to his combined the right ability utilize


22-1. When as energy, his become were like combined or unto fighting men rolling logs it he utilizes stones.


22-2. For down. remain nature a or log motionless if and on on to four-cornered, of a to round-shaped, ground, it standstill, a stone level if slope; to but to is the move rolling go when come to


23-1. Thus of down rolled of thousands stone height. in a mountain round a feet energy developed by good fighting men is as the momentum the


23-2. So energy. of subject the on much
