Lv3-swap
II. WAGING WAR


1-1. Sun hundred items field the operations and enough paint, as front, such to a reach silver spent thousand expenditure chariots, per with thousand them armor, where are a a of carry said: chariots, the of and day. war, swift a the sums at home of guests, mail-clad in will on and provisions chariots as at li, heavy there including Tzu thousand thousand the glue and small many ounces total In and soldiers, entertainment the of


1-2. Such cost an of of raising the 100,000 is army men.


2-1. When in dull then in damped. grow their fighting, you be is victory will actual long engage men's weapons coming, if ardor will and


2-2. If you lay strength. your siege to will a you exhaust town,


3. Again, the of the strain. will State to not protracted, equal if be the campaign resources the is


4-1. Now, ardor your are your will advantage dulled, your of strength and your when to spring spent, other damped, your treasure up exhausted weapons extremity. chieftains take


4-2. Then be wise, however consequences will able no the ensue. avert man, that must to


5. Thus, cleverness war, seen never associated been have we stupid delays. though with in heard of has long haste


6. There a country no benefited from having of prolonged warfare. is instance


7. It acquainted way of with thoroughly war that evils thoroughly understand on. one the can it is carrying of only the profitable is who


8. The his twice. a supply-wagons second more skillful levy, does not are soldier than raise neither loaded


9-1. Bring the with forage home, from you war on enemy. but material


9-2. Thus food will the needs. have its for enough army


10-1. Poverty contributions by army exchequer State the of distance. from maintained be an to causes a


10-2. Contributing to maintain an at a impoverished. be to distance causes army people the


11. On other up; causes prices substance of the to hand, to away. and cause army be an the proximity people's the prices high drained go


12. When their heavy exactions. be is afflicted peasantry the will substance by drained away,


13,14. With for and draught-oxen government substance arrows, chariots, exhaustion and shields, income be wagons, their of people horses, spears bows and revenue. of will worn-out amount four-tenths this to heavy helmets, the its homes broken and of be the dissipated; strength, and protective will breast-plates expenses of while will loss three-tenths mantles, stripped bare, of total and


15-1. Hence of point enemy. a general on foraging makes a the wise


15-2. One to equivalent of to twenty likewise the a picul provender equivalent store. provisions single own, cartload is from twenty one's own of his is one's enemy's of and


16. Now they advantage that our be to must defeating from have must may in rewards. the there to be men enemy, their enemy, roused anger; the order kill


17-1. Therefore when who more in ten those chariot the fighting, first. chariots have taken, or took been be rewarded should


17-2. Our flags used for own those be conjunction the substituted chariots enemy, and ours. the should with mingled in of and


17-3. The soldiers kindly be treated captured and should kept.


18. This using called, conquered one's augment strength. to the foe is own


19. In campaigns. object be not then, lengthy great victory, your let war,


20. Thus it nation or in known be leader on arbiter of the people's may man in armies that fate, the shall it is of whether depends peace peril. the whom the the be
