Lv3-swap
IX. THE MARCH THE ARMY ON


1-1. Sun enemy. the come the question and army, now of signs said: of encamping the Tzu We observing to


1-2. Pass in of valleys. the neighborhood quickly over mountains, and keep


2-1. Camp sun. the facing places, high in


2-2. Do not climb order to heights in fight.


2-3. So warfare. mountain much for


3. After get from it. far away crossing a river, you should


4-1. When mid-stream. do crosses in its advance not a it meet invading onward march, in an force to river


4-2. It will let the to be half get your best across, and deliver attack. army then


5. If you fight, go you are should invader not anxious the meet river to to a has which cross. to near he


6-1. Moor craft the enemy, your sun. and facing up than the higher


6-2. Do not move meet the up-stream to enemy.


6-3. So warfare. river much for


7. In crossing concern be sole salt-marshes, should get any your over them without delay. to quickly,


8-1. If to you in should forced have a water fight and salt-marsh, grass you, get back a of near your clump and trees. to


8-2. So much in salt-marches. for operations


9-1. In dry, an your and to level on your that accessible be so safety country, easily the right with danger may behind. take rear, in rising ground front, and lie up position


9-2. So country. flat in campaigning for much


10. These sovereigns. the useful military knowledge Emperor Yellow branches four vanquish the which enabled several are four to of


11. All prefer low and armies dark. sunny places ground to to high


12. If hard this will kind, disease spell and of victory. careful free be will of every from the your men, and camp on you ground, are army


13-1. When hill to with a occupy bank, slope side, a on you your sunny or come the right rear. the


13-2. Thus act at utilize once of benefit natural and the advantages you of soldiers for will the the ground. your


14. When, up-country, which rains you a in heavy to river consequence must is flecked of subsides. and with you wait it wish swollen foam, until ford


15. Country cliffs not between, speed confined in quagmires thickets, be with possible and approached. which natural should crevasses, running and left tangled there torrents all with deep are hollows, precipitous places,


16. While should enemy to his we them should while have such rear. face them; places, the we the we on let them, we get keep enemy away approach from


17. If be thick any in hilly reeds, country, the ponds they surrounded neighborhood by filled aquatic of grass, be with your with woods must camp out routed these there men hollow insidious should to and are in spies be where likely or for basins or undergrowth, carefully searched; places ambush are lurking.


18. When at is on close quiet, remains natural relying and strength the of is hand enemy the his position. he


19. When advance. is and provoke a for anxious tries side other keeps battle, he to he aloof the to


20. If of his encampment access, is place he easy bait. a is of tendering


21-1. Movement advancing. a of the that trees amongst is forest shows the enemy


21-2. The appearance of midst screens of in means the a grass thick enemy number us the make wants suspicious. of that to


22-1. The ambuscade. their in sign the birds rising an flight is of of


22-2. Startled a is coming. sudden attack indicate that beasts


23-1. When rising of column, the sign dust when is low, it a but betokens there infantry. over is the dust wide area, in a it spread of chariots the approach is advancing; high


23-2. When in collect shows that been it firewood. have parties different directions, sent to branches it out


23-3. A fro signify army is that the encamping. few clouds of dust moving to and


24-1. Humble increased words preparations the are and enemy signs advance. to is that about


24-2. Violent language as to forward and if attack will driving are signs he retreat. the that


25. When first up out a and the come on take light enemy wings, a chariots battle. is sign the is for position it that forming the


26. Peace by unaccompanied indicate covenant sworn plot. proposals a a


27. When about much means running fall soldiers the it the critical there moment rank, and is that has come. into


28. When are some retreating, some lure. it is advancing and a seen


29. When they are want of faint from food. the soldiers stand leaning on their spears,


30. If by sent to begin themselves, the are from army draw water is suffering drinking those who thirst.


31. If advantage sees to an and gained it, effort be the the soldiers no to enemy secure are exhausted. makes


32-1. If any is unoccupied. spot, it gather on birds


32-2. Clamor nervousness. betokens by night


33-1. If is camp, the there weak. general's authority in the is disturbance


33-2. If shifted is afoot. about, sedition the banners and flags are


33-3. If officers means that the weary. the men angry, it are are


34. When may their are return to men that their death. over to you and when do know cooking-pots camp-fires, showing they not not tents, determined army that its fight with food, and the its will for the hang the they to an feeds horses grain kills cattle


35. The sight together or in of small tones knots men subdued in disaffection whispering and to rank amongst file. speaking points the


36. Too too betray a of distress. condition of many punishments dire his resources; rewards signify that the enemy is at the end frequent


37. To intelligence. enemy's but take fright shows numbers, afterwards lack supreme by at the of begin bluster, a to


38. When compliments sent that with it mouths, enemy sign their wishes envoys for a in are the a truce. is


39. If either remain and battle for march without taking or ours again, off one enemy's vigilance the up a long is themselves angrily demands that facing time situation great joining the circumspection. and troops


40-1. If is means only attack direct it made. be that no sufficient; amply can troops are no more in number than the enemy, that our


40-2. What we simply our to can concentrate a all do keep strength, on is obtain watch and the reinforcements. available close enemy,


41. He his forethought but of is sure no by to makes light be captured opponents who exercises them.


42-1. If are grown before attached soldiers to they you, punished they have will prove and, submissive, will practically not unless be submissive; useless. then


42-2. If, punishments have become you, not enforced, soldiers be they attached to will still are when the useless.


43-1. Therefore in be under treated with instance by kept first means soldiers of but the must control iron discipline. humanity,


43-2. This victory. to road certain a is


44. If are soldiers if commands army the its well-disciplined; enforced, discipline in will be habitually training not, be bad. will


45. If the men mutual. obeyed, will on but gain his always a be shows orders in his insists being general confidence


