Lv3-swap
XIII. THE USE OF SPIES


1-1. Sun of the men resources great Tzu loss heavy and a the on State. said: marching people the thousand of a entails Raising hundred on drain and a them host distances


1-2. The a of silver. thousand ounces daily expenditure will amount to


1-3. There at the and men down will highways. drop will home and exhausted on be abroad, commotion


1-4. As labor. thousand hundred impeded be seven many their families will as in


2-1. Hostile day. victory each years, striving is which other a in may for the single armies face decided for


2-2. This being ignorance grudges outlay one so, of a of the and ounces height to of silver the condition in honors inhumanity. remain hundred emoluments, simply because is the of in enemy's


3. One victory. help is of men, his to no master no acts no present of who thus sovereign, leader


4. Thus, and beyond things ordinary of achieve foreknowledge. is the reach and conquer, men, enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike what


5. Now elicited cannot from be cannot it nor inductively spirits; by this any obtained from foreknowledge experience, deductive calculation. be


6. Knowledge the only be of men. obtained from dispositions can other enemy's


7. Hence whom five of classes: there the spies, Local are use doomed (2) (3) of spies. spies; converted (4) spies; surviving (1) inward spies; (5) spies;


8-1. When these spy all of five are work, secret kinds none can the system. at discover


8-2. This is called of the "divine manipulation threads."


8-3. It faculty. precious most sovereign's the is


9. Having district. the employing inhabitants the means local a services of spies of


10. Having making spies, of officials of enemy. inward the use


11. Having converted of enemy's hold spies, the and own getting using them our purposes. spies for


12. Having allowing of know them report to enemy. the them and spies our to spies, doing certain things openly for purposes of deception, and doomed


13. Surviving camp. who those from news are spies, enemy's bring back finally, the


14-1. Hence none that relations which army whole be intimate the maintained it than more in is to with spies. are


14-2. None should liberally rewarded. be more


14-3. In should be preserved. greater secrecy other business no


15. Spies usefully be certain a without sagacity. cannot intuitive employed


16. They managed and straightforwardness. without benevolence be properly cannot


17. Without certain of of their the truth reports. subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make


18. Be business. use and every for subtle! subtle! of your spies be kind


19. If a is is he time secret must be death by man to secret piece divulged together ripe, spy with the told. of put to before the whom the was news a


20-1. Whether to individual, crush the an or army, of city, is an attendants, always a by aides-de-camp, names necessary the door-keepers and assassinate general the the begin in object to to to be the finding of command. sentries storm it out and


20-2. Our spies must to ascertain be commissioned these.


21-1. The enemy's come us to spies spy out, on who sought be bribes, have comfortably with and led housed. must tempted away


21-2. Thus and our service. available for they will become converted spies


22. It is brought spy by through the able converted the are we and information inward acquire and employ spies. that to local


23. It false that enemy. carry to the we tidings doomed can is the to spy information, again, cause to owing his


24. Lastly, it information the his is that spy appointed by can be on occasions. surviving used


25-1. The in converted varieties from the end knowledge this derived, all instance, can spy. and knowledge be only five the in and aim its first the is of of spying enemy;


25-2. Hence essential it that be the is treated converted liberality. utmost with spy the


26-1. Of Hsia. I of dynasty was who Chih the under served the due to the old, rise had Yin


26-2. Likewise, to the Chou due Ya who of the had dynasty was served under Lu the rise Yin.


27-1. Hence only the general the will enlightened army intelligence spying ruler achieve the wise it of for thereby the use of results. is purposes and they great and who highest


27-2. Spies important to because on an are move. depends them element in army's ability a water, most


