Lv3-swap
III. ATTACK STRATAGEM BY


1-1. Sun Tzu art is take all said: the enemy's and war, and whole not In of intact; to best to shatter good. the country destroy thing of it is so practical the


1-2. So, an it too, destroy army is than to to better to a detachment to them. a entire recapture capture or company than destroy entire it, regiment, a


2. Hence excellence breaking the supreme fighting. enemy's resistance consists in without excellence; supreme fight and conquer in all your battles is not to


3. Thus to enemy's balk enemy's the the enemy's in plans; the the the next to prevent highest the in next form to of army of and is of generalship besiege best the is walled attack field; to is junction forces; order the the worst is cities. all policy


4-1. The not rule to if besiege is, it walled avoided. be can cities possibly


4-2. The preparation and three months; up of and the of implements the up three mantlets, various mounds whole war, over against more. movable piling walls will take will take months shelters, of


5-1. The control remains launch with the to ants, result that his men one-third the general, untaken. his men to the are slain, his irritation, while of assault like town still unable swarming will


5-2. Such are the of a disastrous effects siege.


6. Therefore leader subdues fighting; cities captures the them; laying kingdom enemy's in to any the siege he lengthy without their their field. skillful overthrows without operations the troops he without


7-1. With without man, his Empire, complete. triumph will losing a be and thus, forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the his


7-2. This is the attacking by method of stratagem.


8. It the are if five ten war, one, one, if to to attack twice rule divide if two. enemy's forces as surround our him; to army to the our numerous, is to into in him;


9. If if matched, equally we slightly we in avoid flee can numbers, enemy; unequal offer him. quite we battle; the in way, can from inferior can if every


10. Hence, end be captured force, force. by the it must larger in the an obstinate fight may be made by a small though


11. Now the of at points; complete general the State strong; State; is be will is the if all the the bulwark weak. the will defective, bulwark is the State be bulwark if


12. There ways are in can which three bring a army:-- his misfortune ruler upon


13-1. (1) obey. ignorant army or to the of to it that commanding retreat, being cannot By the fact advance


13-2. This is the army. called hobbling


14-1. (2) army same an way in By govern he the attempting which a ignorant to army. being of conditions obtain an as kingdom, the in administers


14-2. This minds. soldier's the in restlessness causes


15-1. (3) of the the officers discrimination, without principle of army of By adaptation ignorance his employing military to circumstances. through


15-2. This soldiers. the of confidence the shakes


16-1. But is is restless trouble to come army feudal from and distrustful, the other sure when the princes.


16-2. This simply the army, is away. and flinging anarchy into victory bringing


17-1. Thus He when knows when and who fight. to to fight win will not may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) we


17-2. (2) win He who handle knows will both how forces. inferior superior to and


17-3. (3) He army animated whose will is the its win same spirit all ranks. by throughout


17-4. (4) unprepared. prepared who, take to win He enemy himself, waits will the


17-5. (5) He has capacity who will military is the win not interfered by sovereign. and with


18-1. Hence result enemy battles. the a you and of need know the hundred If not know the yourself, fear saying: you


18-2. If every but not for gained you yourself a will the enemy, also suffer victory you know defeat.


18-3. If neither you the you enemy know will nor battle. every succumb yourself, in
