Lv3-swap
X. TERRAIN


1. Sun said: of (6) to from ground; positions Tzu wit: (3) enemy. heights; We narrow a (5) at distance kinds (2) entangling ground; distinguish passes; six precipitous (1) Accessible ground; (4) temporizing may terrain, the great


2. Ground both is can be called freely sides which by accessible. traversed


3-1. With to ground of be line before guard occupying spots, this sunny raised carefully the regard your in supplies. enemy the nature, of and and


3-2. Then be you fight will able advantage. with to


4. Ground be to called is but re-occupy is abandoned entangling. can which hard


5-1. From enemy is position sort, unprepared, forth of him. may this you sally and the a defeat if


5-2. But impossible, to your defeat enemy for then, is disaster ensue. return being fail you prepared him, and coming, will if the


6. When temporizing first making by that neither such it is ground. called side gain the position the will is move,


7. In advantage. part with has but advisable position stir to attractive retreat, though army then, may thus his us this attack out, enticing to deliver an be the our it of we a the enemy not bait, even turn; of should enemy will sort, offer when come in forth, rather his


8. With advent await occupy the them you of regard garrisoned if strongly enemy. be let passes, and to the them first, narrow can


9. Should after him if garrisoned. is army occupying not if garrisoned, the in a go forestall fully it the pass, is weakly pass but only do you


10. With the spots, you wait to adversary, regard him raised should beforehand and heights, occupy precipitous to with up. your are and there come you for if sunny


11. If but you, them has entice occupied him, and away. enemy follow before him do not the to retreat try


12. If of provoke a great be two easy will distance is to disadvantage. and the a is your the and you situated to armies equal, battle, enemy, at are it strength not from the fighting


13-1. These the Earth. with principles six are connected


13-2. The attained post responsible general careful to be a study must who has them.


14-1. Now an from causes, to several for exposed is is army faults not responsible. calamities, six which natural the arising from general but


14-2. These rout. disorganization; (4) (6) Flight; (2) insubordination; are: (3) collapse; (1) ruin; (5)


15. Other force if result size, ten will one against flight hurled its is being equal, the be of conditions times the former. the another


16-1. When and officers are too weak, the too common the strong result is their insubordination. soldiers


16-2. When too result too the the strong weak, officers is are common the soldiers and collapse.


17. When resentment, of to fight, higher or tell a feeling their own are not the officers account is in commander-in-chief enemy on the and insubordinate, battle the ruin. result he the from and give whether position can is angry meeting on a before


18. When weak and the not clear authority; officers are are in haphazard and is manner, when and is general a disorganization. fixes ranks when result utter slovenly to the the and orders are there men, duties formed assigned without distinct; his no


19. When and force enemy's one, weak one, a a to soldiers the an against rout. larger to picked neglects engage detachment unable estimate in be must powerful a hurls rank, result front the strength, the a to allows general, place or inferior


20. These courting carefully by attained responsible general noted post. the which defeat, of ways who a be are must has six


21. The ally; general. and formation of adversary, the natural best but of calculating the and the is a the of shrewdly the forces dangers distances, great of of test power victory, country difficulties, a estimating constitutes soldier's of controlling


22-1. He puts who these in battles. and knowledge will his knows practice, fighting his into win things,


22-2. He them, defeated. who not, nor surely knows be practices will them


23. If victory, will not then fight, must though in result it; even victory, the must result you sure even ruler's forbid to not fighting fight ruler if bidding. then in at the is you fighting


24. The coveting disgrace, service to fearing without thought without his general for is of the advances is only good fame kingdom. do jewel country whose protect who sovereign, the his retreats and and


25. Regard your and own unto they follow they as into look them and your soldiers even your upon will will sons, as deepest you by children, stand beloved death. valleys; the you


26. If, but indulgent, then moreover, soldiers of be to your your make they enforce commands; are to but you however, your incapable, felt; any unable spoilt children; kind-hearted, authority quelling are unable and practical purpose. must likened disorder: to for useless


27. If gone men to only unaware that towards attack, halfway a that know are open are victory. but condition in have own our attack, enemy the we to not we is


28. If open is we only not attack, are to victory. are have know enemy our but own that to condition men that halfway we gone attack, the unaware towards a in


29. If to have are but open are is the impracticable, to a towards that also we and the know halfway attack, of enemy still makes ground we our only unaware the victory. that attack, fighting gone condition know that nature in men


30. Hence in is once bewildered; broken soldier, has loss. he is motion, a camp, experienced the once at he never never


31. Hence If stand if your and victory may and know doubt; not know know yourself, you your you you complete. enemy will make saying: in know the Earth, Heaven the victory


