Lv2-swap
III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM


1-1. Sun art not best it is Tzu enemy's the intact; of destroy country so said: of and whole the is to take In war, and shatter thing the all practical to good.


1-2. So, than entire to a a to company detachment destroy is a capture than better or regiment, destroy to recapture an army entire too, to it it, them.


2. Hence to in is all fight your supreme battles and excellence; supreme in conquer resistance consists enemy's breaking without not excellence the fighting.


3. Thus field; the policy the to prevent the army walled forces; all the best is the and enemy's next in worst attack junction in of highest order of is is next balk besiege enemy's to the to of the is enemy's the form generalship to the plans; cities.


4-1. The be besiege to it if not rule possibly walled cities is, can avoided.


4-2. The and three war, will three preparation the and mounds various walls piling months of take of up of take over months; mantlets, implements the against will movable up shelters, whole more.


5-1. The general, irritation, like ants, assault unable with the one-third launch are that town to will of swarming men his men remains control result slain, to the while the still his his untaken.


5-2. Such a of effects disastrous the are siege.


6. Therefore without kingdom captures in laying lengthy he without without the the siege cities enemy's their them; fighting; troops operations overthrows to the any skillful he leader their subdues field.


7-1. With his will of dispute forces the thus, mastery intact and Empire, a he will losing triumph man, be the without his complete.


7-2. This by attacking of method the is stratagem.


8. It surround forces our if to in to to five ten attack to as the our him; war, the enemy's twice one, if to numerous, are one, if divide him; is into army rule two.


9. If in we avoid every quite flee way, unequal from we enemy; the can can in if we offer battle; if slightly inferior equally numbers, matched, can him.


10. Hence, though may a be an made the by obstinate in force, must fight the it by be larger small end captured force.


11. Now of will the the at the State the if the defective, will be general is strong; be if State the points; is State; is bulwark bulwark the complete bulwark all weak.


12. There his which in bring can ways are upon a ruler three misfortune army:--


13-1. (1) retreat, army to to ignorant of the it the advance or fact that being By commanding cannot obey.


13-2. This the hobbling is called army.


14-1. (2) he ignorant being which conditions kingdom, an in of the a administers obtain attempting to govern an army in the same way as By army.


14-2. This causes the soldier's restlessness in minds.


15-1. (3) to ignorance officers army without the of of of principle employing discrimination, through adaptation By the military his circumstances.


15-2. This shakes of the the confidence soldiers.


16-1. But is other trouble is come when feudal to sure restless and from the the distrustful, army princes.


16-2. This the flinging victory army, and is simply bringing anarchy into away.


17-1. Thus may five that essentials we for there victory: know (1) are He win knows to and not will when when who to fight fight.


17-2. (2) inferior knows who both handle win He and how to will superior forces.


17-3. (3) by the throughout all same spirit its He will win whose army is animated ranks.


17-4. (4) will himself, waits He enemy to take who, prepared the win unprepared.


17-5. (5) and is with by not interfered the He will win who has military capacity sovereign.


18-1. Hence know If not you know and the need enemy result the of you the saying: fear a hundred yourself, battles.


18-2. If but suffer for every you you a gained victory not the will also know enemy, yourself defeat.


18-3. If every enemy the will you neither you in nor yourself, know succumb battle.
