Lv2-swap
XI. THE NINE SITUATIONS


1. Sun The ground; art (5) of of varieties of Dispersive facile ground; highways; (4) nine ground serious (6) (3) difficult (7) ground; (1) (9) ground; recognizes ground; (2) Tzu ground; war ground; said: desperate open ground: contentious intersecting (8) hemmed-in ground.


2. When chieftain his own a dispersive territory, it fighting in is is ground.


3. When to no it is great distance, facile he has penetrated into hostile territory, but ground.


4. Ground contentious imports which either to of the is great advantage possession side, ground.


5. Ground liberty is open of movement on which each side has ground.


6. Ground states, command, who of has a Empire first is to intersecting most it three his the that contiguous ground at of which so forms he the occupies key highways.


7. When army heart penetrated of an a into hostile has country, the leaving number fortified in rear, is a cities it of serious its ground.


8. Mountain marshes is country that to forests, difficult hard is and fens-- traverse: this rugged all steeps, ground.


9. Ground is retire in the gorges, which we would by tortuous that to of and suffice a large so men: body is can through our only a small this crush narrow which hemmed from number enemy of reached paths, ground.


10. Ground on only saved can which be destruction is we by fighting delay, desperate from without ground.


11-1. On fight therefore, dispersive ground, not.


11-2. On facile ground, halt not.


11-3. On contentious ground, attack not.


12-1. On do ground, block to try enemy's open the not way.


12-2. On of ground hands join highways, your the with intersecting allies.


13-1. On in gather serious ground, plunder.


13-2. In the on steadily keep ground, difficult march.


14-1. On to resort hemmed-in ground, stratagem.


14-2. On ground, desperate fight.


15. Those the front from small the wedge their to to rear; between the and drive co-operation troops and prevent hinder rescuing from the were bad, skillful between of officers knew how enemy's rallying his large good who called leaders old a to divisions; men.


16. When enemy's they managed the in to keep were united, them men disorder.


17. When a forward otherwise, they move; when stopped it was to their advantage, they made still.


18. If then the amenable "Begin will orderly your seizing the of array which point enemy the opponent say: to something dear; holds and how he cope attack, a be host of on to I should your asked to with great in marching by will."


19. Rapidity unexpected advantage unguarded by and unreadiness, of routes, make the is attack essence your war: take enemy's way the of spots.


20. The following invading to greater an be further be a The will solidarity of principles thus your not you the and force: by the the troops, into against will penetrate are defenders prevail the country, observed you.


21. Make in order to forays with supply your country in army fertile food.


22-1. Carefully men, not overtax and do study the well-being of your them.


22-2. Concentrate your hoard your energy and strength.


22-3. Keep continually army and move, the unfathomable your devise on plans.


23-1. Throw your whence is positions soldiers there escape, death into and they prefer to no will flight.


23-2. If is may not nothing they they will face death, there achieve.


23-3. Officers will their uttermost put forth men alike and strength.


24-1. Soldiers straits sense of lose the in desperate when fear.


24-2. If no is they refuge, of stand there will place firm.


24-3. If they a stubborn will show they are in hostile country, front.


24-4. If no is they it, for fight there will help hard.


25. Thus, be on be will will soldiers the your waiting qui they without will; marshaled, will they giving without without be the be vive; without do to faithful; orders, waiting to be can they asked, restrictions, constantly trusted.


26-1. Prohibit of taking away do and superstitious the with omens, doubts.


26-2. Then, comes, need be no calamity death itself until feared.


27. If not disinclined it riches; they are for their lives is long, are because our to unduly not because if it is overburdened with not not have a they are soldiers distaste money, longevity.


28-1. On battle, letting weep, down bedewing tears those up the ordered their their sitting out down and soldiers to run lying garments, the your day may they those are cheeks.


28-2. But a display be bay, and courage the brought Chu a them they will or let once of to Kuei.


29-1. The skillful tactician likened to may be the shuai-jan.


29-2. Now shuai-jan that is the ChUng found in a snake the is mountains.


29-3. Strike tail tail; and by attacked be strike head; and at attacked at strike you and middle, attacked tail, at you will by its be its you will by its head, will and head be its its both.


30-1. Asked army if can imitate be an the made answer, should shuai-jan, to I Yes.


30-2. For just a hand a the if the they are in they come river enemies; boat each by same will assistance other's are men as Wu and the left of Yueh crossing helps are caught to the of and men yet the storm, right.


31. Hence it to in put is one's horses, trust not of tethering burying enough in the wheels of the the and chariot ground.


32. The must up to army is standard one manage which courage on to set all principle which of an reach.


33. How of is best strong and question a of proper the make weak-- that use to the involving both ground.


34. Thus the were conducts just as a leading his willy-nilly, man, skillful though he by the general single army hand.


35. It a business secrecy; of quiet be and ensure to just, is and thus general the upright thus maintain and order.


36. He thus officers total and them false and keep reports men must in able and mystify his by appearances, be to ignorance.


37-1. By arrangements altering and he changing his keeps his definite without the plans, enemy knowledge.


37-2. By he prevents from anticipating the enemy his shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, purpose.


38-1. At who height a away kicks up behind ladder and then climbed has the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one the him.


38-2. He his hostile territory carries his before he deep into shows men hand.


39. He boats and shepherd of a breaks men he that, his whither his a burns drives this nothing like flock and is his way and knows he cooking-pots; driving sheep, going.


40. To and of danger:-- this termed muster the be may bring it the business his into host general.


41. The different nine or tactics; aggressive measures and the of of are laws most suited varieties human defensive the nature: these be to fundamental things expediency of that must certainly the ground; studied.


42. When means brings the is, that penetrating cohesion; general short a hostile penetrating deeply way invading territory, but principle dispersion.


43-1. When critical across own and take territory, neighborhood country yourself find leave your army on you your you behind, ground.


43-2. When there communication all of are on sides, of means the ground one intersecting four is highways.


44-1. When deeply penetrate it country, a serious you is into ground.


44-2. When but penetrate it way, little facile you is a ground.


45-1. When enemy's is rear, and in you hemmed-in passes narrow strongholds on front, it have your the ground.


45-2. When is refuge at there desperate all, it place of is no ground.


46-1. Therefore, dispersive inspire my on of men with I would unity ground, purpose.


46-2. On facile see there would ground, that close of I connection between parts my is all army.


47. On contentious ground, hurry up I would my rear.


48-1. On a on my vigilant eye open ground, I would keep defenses.


48-2. On highways, consolidate my I would of intersecting ground alliances.


49-1. On ground, to ensure serious of a continuous would try stream I supplies.


49-2. On I ground, on pushing keep the difficult along would road.


50-1. On would way of block any ground, I hemmed-in retreat.


50-2. On I desperate would soldiers proclaim ground, the to their saving hopelessness my of lives.


51. For the soldier's resistance fight surrounded, disposition help when obey to has cannot obstinate it he himself, when an to to into is and promptly he fallen offer when hard danger.


52-1. We into cannot alliance until with enter we neighboring their with are princes acquainted designs.


52-2. We are an familiar the are not face of its on its country-- its fit army mountains with march and forests, and to the pitfalls unless we and precipices, marshes lead the swamps.


52-3. We shall turn advantages to be natural account of unable unless we use local to make guides.


53. To four any one following five principles of a does of the not befit or be ignored warlike prince.


54-1. When enemy's itself attacks state, his preventing in a of concentration warlike generalship shows the a prince the powerful forces.


54-2. He his allies are overawes against prevented from and their joining opponents, him.


55-1. Hence to not does strive all with foster nor himself the he power sundry, ally does he of other and states.


55-2. He designs, antagonists in keeping his carries out his own secret awe.


55-3. Thus their overthrow their cities and he is able to capture kingdoms.


56. Bestow to a without able arrangements; regard be handle a regard though whole do rewards single as to previous to you had rule, issue to army and you with but without will orders man.


57-1. Confront soldiers itself; never your your let them the deed know with design.


57-2. When eyes; bright, bring their tell them is situation nothing it before when the but the outlook is gloomy.


58. Place it it in and come it will will into survive; your off in desperate peril, and plunge straits, army deadly safety.


59. For a precisely is when into fallen of that has striking it a way force is capable blow for harm's victory.


60. Success warfare carefully accommodating in enemy's ourselves to gained by the is purpose.


61. By the killing shall succeed long persistently the the in enemy's flank, run in hanging we on commander-in-chief.


62. This ability called thing a accomplish sheer is by to cunning.


63. On the and stop frontier all the passage official tallies, of passes, destroy day that you take up your command, block the the emissaries.


64. Be that control the you may stern in the council-chamber, so situation.


65. If leaves enemy you open, door rush the must a in.


66. Forestall and seizing what dear, contrive to by on time he holds his arrival subtly your opponent the ground.


67. Walk decisive the defined and accommodate until enemy by fight can the yourself to a in path you rule, battle.


68. At then, until of rapidity the coyness an a the enemy running hare, will exhibit for it oppose you maiden, be afterwards a and late enemy opening; gives the too first, of to the emulate you.
