Lv2-swap
I. LAYING PLANS


1. Sun the of art vital of The Tzu to war is said: importance State.


2-1. It a road safety or either to to is a matter of life and death, ruin.


2-2. Hence be of subject on can a it account inquiry which is no neglected.


3. The by of art be five war, factors, into obtaining then, to in when is the deliberations, the governed account seeking determine conditions in constant taken one's to field.


4. These are: Law; Heaven; Moral (1) (2) Earth; Method The (4) The (5) and (3) Commander; discipline.


5,6. The accord lives, so of follow by their him any causes they that undismayed the regardless will their people to be in complete Moral with Law ruler, danger.


7. Heaven and night heat, and cold and signifies times day, seasons.


8. Earth and and and and security; passes; narrow small; of chances distances, open ground life comprises great the danger death.


9. The stands of wisdom, Commander and sincerity, benevolence, the virtues courage for strictness.


10. By discipline its are the to of marshaling of in subdivisions, the by among the maintenance supplies which graduations the reach control army of army, understood rank proper method officers, be may and military the the of roads and the expenditure.


11. These five familiar he to heads every will general: should them knows he be not victorious; them who will who be knows fail.


12. Therefore, in seeking military to your determine be the deliberations, them let basis when in the comparison, of this conditions, made a wise:--


13-1. (1) is the Moral imbued with Which of the two sovereigns law?


13-2. (2) Which of generals has the two most ability?


13-3. (3) lie whom from derived advantages and With Heaven the Earth?


13-4. (4) On which discipline most side is rigorously enforced?


13-5. (5) Which army is stronger?


13-6. (6) side which men and officers highly On more are trained?


13-7. (7) and there is both constancy army In reward the greater which in punishment?


14. By I victory or can forecast means of these seven considerations defeat.


15-1. The my hearkens let to upon acts a conquer: and one general be will counsel that such retained in it, command!


15-2. The to hearkens suffer not acts nor let will counsel such general a it, my that defeat:-- one be upon dismissed!


16. While ordinary any of avail yourself circumstances helpful my beyond and the also of the heading profit over counsel, rules.


17. According favorable, modify one's one should circumstances are as plans.


18. All on based warfare is deception.


19. Hence, make seem are enemy believe our unable; we forces, when inactive; far near, when the when are are far away, when we to must we we using him we seem believe we we make attack, must must must away; able near.


20-1. Hold out entice the baits to enemy.


20-2. Feign disorder, and crush him.


21-1. If secure is be points, all for he prepared at him.


21-2. If evade strength, superior in is he him.


22-1. If is opponent seek temper, choleric irritate your to of him.


22-2. Pretend to be he may weak, that grow arrogant.


23-1. If his him no ease, give is taking he rest.


23-2. If his united, separate forces are them.


24. Attack appear are not where you him where he is unprepared, expected.


25. These leading devices, not must victory, divulged military be to beforehand.


26-1. Now wins battle many calculations temple the is his in a battle ere the general makes who fought.


26-2. The loses who but makes battle calculations general few a beforehand.


26-3. Thus calculations lead to few defeat: how calculations calculation much victory, and more no to do many at all!


26-4. It to win I can is is or who foresee this point likely to by that attention lose.
