Lv2-swap
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS


1. Sun general and his said: war, the his sovereign, concentrates collects his from receives the In army commands Tzu forces.


2-1. When not in country, difficult do encamp.


2-2. In hands where your join with roads high intersect, country allies.


2-3. Do dangerously isolated in not linger positions.


2-4. In hemmed-in situations, you resort to must stratagem.


2-5. In desperate must you position, fight.


3. There must which attacked, which besieged, be be sovereign not which which the must not be followed, which must not must be not positions not armies of be roads commands must contested, towns are obeyed.


4. The tactics accompany the handle advantages to of knows general that who his thoroughly how variation understands troops.


5. The able may these, the who be his of understand acquainted yet knowledge configuration turn not not general be to will country, to with he well does the practical account.


6. So, use even art though who to make in plans, his Five war is the varying student of be of his war of Advantages, the with acquainted best will the of fail unversed he the men.


7. Hence of blended leader's in advantage disadvantage plans, and considerations the be will wise of together.


8. If our way, succeed of our this part in accomplishing the advantage in be we tempered expectation of may essential schemes.


9. If, hand, the seize are ready of difficulties always advantage, from on other extricate we we in an midst ourselves may the to misfortune.


10. Reduce and on out keep them; make hostile and for the hold engaged; them chiefs them, constantly rush trouble inflicting make them to by allurements, any and given damage specious point.


11. The we on have teaches that not to art not attacking, our not us rely likelihood enemy's of on but war his the to fact but the the position of on him; rather the receive own our made on coming, chance readiness of not unassailable.


12. There destruction; his cowardice, and temper, (4) him exposes to over-solicitude be to worry leads (3) (5) which which affect dangerous Recklessness, sensitive insults; to five which a are shame; which of men, which by capture; (2) is hasty can a leads provoked delicacy a which honor general: to may for faults (1) trouble.


13. These five a sins general, besetting conduct ruinous the of are of to the war.


14-1. When overthrown cause five among be will slain, its these army and the an is dangerous found leader surely faults.


14-2. Let of be subject a them meditation.


