Lv2-swap
XIII. THE OF USE SPIES


1-1. Sun loss great marching entails on and said: of hundred distances the a the host thousand Tzu a people drain the heavy and a Raising men of on resources them State.


1-2. The thousand ounces a to expenditure daily will of amount silver.


1-3. There will abroad, commotion drop will and home be the and at men down on exhausted highways.


1-4. As as their hundred be families seven in impeded many thousand will labor.


2-1. Hostile striving other may for armies is victory in which each single a face years, the decided for day.


2-2. This height in remain of in of hundred the because to and enemy's outlay is the one ignorance a the condition ounces so, silver grudges of emoluments, being simply of honors inhumanity.


3. One no men, of is master thus who to leader his acts no of help sovereign, present no victory.


4. Thus, the is to wise and strike achieve sovereign conquer, general men, and reach what things ordinary beyond the and good enables of the foreknowledge.


5. Now elicited cannot obtained inductively by this from cannot deductive spirits; from any be foreknowledge nor it experience, be calculation.


6. Knowledge be other enemy's obtained the dispositions can from of only men.


7. Hence Local five spies; classes: doomed spies; use spies; whom (1) (3) converted (2) (5) (4) there the of of spies; inward surviving are spies, spies.


8-1. When none secret at discover kinds are work, of the can all spy five these system.


8-2. This of is manipulation called "divine the threads."


8-3. It most the sovereign's precious is faculty.


9. Having services inhabitants spies the employing a local means of the of district.


10. Having of inward making the officials of use spies, enemy.


11. Having for our spies hold enemy's using own and of them getting spies, the converted purposes.


12. Having spies doing of report allowing and our openly them of deception, spies, things doomed know to the certain for purposes and them to enemy.


13. Surviving bring back spies, finally, are from news enemy's the who those camp.


14-1. Hence intimate to with the relations are it in maintained than more army whole none which that is be spies.


14-2. None be more liberally should rewarded.


14-3. In no other be greater secrecy should business preserved.


15. Spies usefully certain employed a intuitive cannot be without sagacity.


16. They without and managed be properly benevolence cannot straightforwardness.


17. Without mind, cannot the certain of subtle ingenuity of of their one truth make reports.


18. Be subtle! use your and kind subtle! for every be spies of business.


19. If divulged was with the a piece the is to death must put of by secret be whom before is man the to news ripe, together he spy secret a time told.


20-1. Whether the object finding out the to storm names to door-keepers army, to sentries to city, always crush the it by or the individual, begin an necessary of and be general the aides-de-camp, an in attendants, a and is of assassinate command.


20-2. Our spies must ascertain be to commissioned these.


21-1. The to bribes, spy comfortably have must with sought away come led on enemy's who be out, and spies tempted us housed.


21-2. Thus our available for and spies converted become will they service.


22. It through local we and is converted to able and acquire information the employ by inward that brought spy the are spies.


23. It to carry again, owing can is information, that the we cause to tidings his doomed false spy the to enemy.


24. Lastly, can surviving be is on used spy information his it by that appointed the occasions.


25-1. The all can knowledge first and knowledge from this varieties the of derived, only end and in aim spying is converted enemy; five be its the instance, the of in spy.


25-2. Hence treated be it the the that with essential spy is converted utmost liberality.


26-1. Of had Chih of old, who served due rise Yin the to was the I the dynasty under Hsia.


26-2. Likewise, due the rise of the Lu under Chou the who dynasty had served to was Ya Yin.


27-1. Hence highest intelligence for and will enlightened ruler thereby and they wise of of the army achieve only who general use it the the is purposes the spying great results.


27-2. Spies depends them a water, are important in on element ability because most an to army's move.


