Lv2-swap
IX. THE THE ON ARMY MARCH


1-1. Sun the the and of encamping come to observing Tzu of said: signs the now question We army, enemy.


1-2. Pass mountains, in of and keep quickly the over neighborhood valleys.


2-1. Camp places, high the in facing sun.


2-2. Do to heights order in climb not fight.


2-3. So mountain much for warfare.


3. After you away get crossing river, should from a far it.


4-1. When to in river not onward its it crosses force do advance in an march, meet invading a mid-stream.


4-2. It get let army to and the will deliver your then best be half across, attack.


5. If to fight, which he not meet should river the invader a anxious are to go has to you you near cross.


6-1. Moor your than craft the enemy, up higher facing the and sun.


6-2. Do the move not to up-stream meet enemy.


6-3. So for much river warfare.


7. In to them get should any quickly, sole crossing without your be salt-marshes, over concern delay.


8-1. If you near fight get a should grass to a you, water forced and have to salt-marsh, in and back of your clump trees.


8-2. So much in for operations salt-marches.


9-1. In be safety to may with rising your rear, country, the up easily accessible position in that take ground right an and danger your front, and so level dry, lie on behind.


9-2. So flat campaigning in for much country.


10. These four are four enabled Yellow the several the vanquish to military knowledge useful of branches which Emperor sovereigns.


11. All sunny to and prefer low to ground high armies places dark.


12. If you ground, kind, men, every and hard camp the disease will of are army and will free this from careful on your be of spell victory.


13-1. When right hill a slope bank, occupy on a the your come sunny side, the with or you to rear.


13-2. Thus once at natural and of act the your benefit utilize advantages you of the for soldiers will the ground.


14. When, heavy must ford you wish up-country, rains to it consequence and with flecked foam, swollen is a of which you wait river until in subsides.


15. Country all in quagmires possible hollows, and confined and torrents thickets, are not be there natural tangled deep precipitous which cliffs crevasses, with places, should with between, left running speed approached.


16. While let such approach enemy away we them enemy while his on them; should get the should we them, the face to places, from keep we have we rear.


17. If your be they men insidious aquatic of these are neighborhood be country, by camp grass, or searched; surrounded in undergrowth, ponds carefully for woods any places be should must the hollow or thick in spies reeds, routed are basins and to with where likely filled there with ambush hilly out lurking.


18. When the on close strength and quiet, he his is the of relying remains enemy is hand at natural position.


19. When provoke he to tries keeps battle, to for the aloof other is he and anxious a side advance.


20. If a place easy is of access, of he his tendering encampment is bait.


21-1. Movement enemy the that amongst a trees forest of shows is the advancing.


21-2. The thick that midst number in means screens wants the of us appearance to make of enemy grass the a of suspicious.


22-1. The rising in birds their flight an the sign of of is ambuscade.


22-2. Startled attack that beasts is sudden indicate a coming.


23-1. When over in rising sign a the the low, advancing; area, betokens dust it the is a wide column, dust chariots there of when approach of it is high spread is but infantry.


23-2. When out it in it collect directions, that have parties branches sent to been different shows firewood.


23-3. A and is the few that to of army clouds fro dust moving signify encamping.


24-1. Humble the is and signs about to enemy that increased are words preparations advance.


24-2. Violent attack and will language that as signs if forward are he the driving to retreat.


25. When on out the first take it position and is sign light a enemy for a forming wings, that the the up is chariots come battle.


26. Peace a covenant unaccompanied proposals indicate sworn a by plot.


27. When fall moment critical the into the is much rank, running and that has means about soldiers there it come.


28. When it a advancing some and retreating, seen are some is lure.


29. When leaning spears, of their faint on the they want soldiers are stand from food.


30. If who draw water themselves, are those from army the begin to suffering sent drinking by is thirst.


31. If to it, the and gained enemy an sees soldiers makes the advantage are to effort no secure be exhausted.


32-1. If it is spot, on any gather birds unoccupied.


32-2. Clamor by night betokens nervousness.


33-1. If the is disturbance authority is the in camp, general's there weak.


33-2. If about, shifted banners and the are flags sedition is afoot.


33-3. If angry, are the are the it officers means that men weary.


34. When they its the to with fight that an that camp-fires, over the their cattle to and they for not are men the may its tents, you showing hang and determined return feeds horses army not do will food, know grain to their kills when cooking-pots death.


35. The small rank speaking sight knots subdued men in tones or together and disaffection whispering amongst in to points the of file.


36. Too end the at a dire signify is resources; of condition the that rewards of many his frequent too punishments betray enemy distress.


37. To numbers, afterwards supreme of take but bluster, at to fright enemy's shows the begin lack a by intelligence.


38. When wishes a is sign compliments in the mouths, are envoys it with their for that enemy a sent truce.


39. If and themselves that remain a demands the the joining taking up facing either again, off great vigilance is one angrily and for enemy's troops without ours long battle or march time situation circumspection.


40-1. If are means amply attack direct number our enemy, the only no more than that that troops no can be in it sufficient; is made.


40-2. What can a obtain concentrate on we and all do close the available keep simply strength, our enemy, to is watch reinforcements.


41. He makes his is opponents by captured to be forethought who but sure light exercises no of them.


42-1. If prove you, then submissive, will practically before to are have soldiers will punished grown they attached unless be not submissive; they and, useless.


42-2. If, you, are attached become not the still be punishments soldiers they will to when enforced, have useless.


43-1. Therefore first control the kept iron means soldiers but in instance under must with treated be humanity, by of discipline.


43-2. This road certain a is to victory.


44. If in enforced, will army be if training not, will well-disciplined; soldiers are habitually commands the be its discipline bad.


45. If gain be general orders men obeyed, his but in being insists confidence the shows a always will on his mutual.


