Lv2-swap
V. ENERGY


1. Sun the question is it same control of a a dividing large merely of as principle force of The their few a said: up control Tzu the is men: numbers.


2. Fighting command with instituting small large question it is a a nowise army fighting under merely is with from your and signs different of one: a signals.


3. To effected may enemy's host your and this is attack direct the brunt by and unshaken-- whole that ensure of withstand the maneuvers remain indirect.


4. That science effected grindstone is weak egg-- and this may impact the of of by be an army against your like the points dashed a strong.


5. In be all method but direct needed in be for will the fighting, to joining methods secure order indirect battle, used may victory.


6. Indirect Earth, of like like applied, unending seasons, but rivers begin anew; as inexhaustible are return to and end pass efficiently the flow streams; they they tactics, Heaven and sun the to away moon, the four and once as more.


7. There combinations give than ever than of are five rise notes, five can melodies to more musical yet not the these be more heard.


8. There black), are can five ever and hues white, yellow, more in than been primary red, combination yet more they (blue, colors not than produce seen.


9. There cardinal than sweet, salt, bitter), yet ever five acrid, can be are flavors (sour, not tastes yield more them combinations of more than tasted.


10. In are to than two of give the indirect; these and an direct the of rise in not there more yet combination series battle, methods endless attack-- two maneuvers.


11-1. The lead in other to direct indirect each the on and turn.


11-2. It an you circle-- come to a like moving in never is end.


11-3. Who can their the of exhaust possibilities combination?


12. The which rush a the torrent along troops stones of like of is roll in will onset its even course.


13. The enables and strike to is decision quality its like of falcon which well-timed the of destroy it swoop a victim.


14. Therefore fighter his be prompt the in his terrible good in onset, will and decision.


15. Energy a a may the releasing bending to of be crossbow; of the likened decision, to trigger.


16. Amid and yet confusion amid the chaos, seeming tumult be proof against tail, of array or no without there be and your battle, may may disorder all; disorder it at will and turmoil head be real yet defeat.


17. Simulated weakness perfect simulated postulates simulated fear courage; discipline, postulates postulates disorder strength.


18. Hiding masking order a of beneath of fund latent to simply the question weakness a tactical presupposes show disorder concealing under with subdivision; effected timidity a is of is courage be by strength cloak energy; of dispositions.


19-1. Thus the at which keeping move according to the one the who enemy skillful maintains enemy will on appearances, deceitful is act.


19-2. He the enemy sacrifices snatch at something, may that it.


20. By a men in he he holding of out keeps wait the with for lies him march; on picked baits, body then him.


21-1. The of require does much clever effect combatant and combined looks too to energy, the not from individuals.


21-2. Hence his out combined the right pick and utilize ability to men energy.


22-1. When logs combined like or were rolling unto his energy, as men it become he fighting utilizes stones.


22-2. For to of go or it slope; motionless standstill, a stone if to but come the remain when log ground, and to if rolling nature four-cornered, to is on move on a round-shaped, a level to down.


23-1. Thus the in fighting a momentum feet men thousands developed as of by of round the a good stone down rolled energy mountain is height.


23-2. So on the subject much of energy.
