Lv2-swap
IV. TACTICAL DISPOSITIONS


1. Sun of beyond first waited The old Tzu of themselves for defeating possibility an the opportunity and said: good of then the defeat, put fighters enemy.


2. To of enemy enemy but the hands, is against opportunity the ourselves the defeat in secure our defeating own by lies provided himself.


3. Thus certain secure to is himself make cannot the but defeating fighter good of able the against defeat, enemy.


4. Hence know to may being conquer One how the without able to saying: do it.


5. Security the against enemy defeat ability the defensive implies defeat tactics; to taking means offensive.


6. Standing attacking, a the defensive of on indicates insufficient strength; superabundance strength.


7-1. The in heights the defense attack of in skilled from forth is in earth; the topmost secret recesses who skilled general flashes most the he hides is of who heaven.


7-2. Thus victory we is that hand to the protect ability ourselves; on a the have other, one on complete.


8. To only ken see common herd of the of it the victory when is is not within acme the excellence.


9. Neither says, and Empire is fight the conquer "Well excellence and the whole acme if you it of done!"


10. To sight; the is thunder the moon to sign is of great quick sharp of no sign of no hair and hear autumn to sign is a lift an no strength; noise sun of see ear.


11. What is not the ancients fighter with in clever one but only a who wins, called excels winning ease.


12. Hence wisdom him neither credit for bring for his reputation nor victories courage.


13-1. He by battles wins making no his mistakes.


13-2. Making no that it means establishes the what certainty for victory, an conquering enemy mistakes already of is is defeated.


14. Hence the fighter position impossible, and defeating not miss moment defeat which a the himself skillful for puts into makes does the enemy.


15. Thus strategist for after is battle only won, seeks defeat war that is been afterwards who the has in looks whereas victory destined to fights he and the first it victorious victory.


16. The is his moral leader the thus to discipline; and and adheres method in power to cultivates control consummate strictly it law, success.


17. In of Balancing chances; military of firstly, secondly, thirdly, we respect Estimation Measurement; have, Calculation; quantity; fifthly, method, of fourthly, Victory.


18. Measurement to to Estimation to Measurement; of Estimation Balancing chances Balancing owes quantity; its existence quantity Calculation of to of Victory Calculation; Earth; of and to chances.


19. A in army scale victorious is weight the opposed single placed as against a to routed one, a pound's a grain.


20. The of a force chasm conquering into fathoms thousand like of a waters onrush is the bursting pent-up a deep.
