Lv2-swap
VII. MANEUVERING


1. Sun the his general receives commands Tzu In war, from the said: sovereign.


2. Having blend concentrated different he before his collected an elements and his forces, must the harmonize and pitching thereof army camp.


3-1. After nothing comes more there that, is than maneuvering, tactical which difficult.


3-2. The devious into the in maneuvering the difficulty turning into of direct, consists tactical and misfortune gain.


4. Thus, shows him, way, contrive after artifice the of enemy him, enticing after knowledge and starting goal circuitous long to though reach and a of route, to take before the of out the the to DEVIATION.


5. Maneuvering is with multitude, most an undisciplined army an advantageous; with dangerous.


6-1. If equipped snatch be to set that in order fully advantage, chances a you army too in the you an will march are late.


6-2. On of involves sacrifice for the purpose the flying its baggage hand, other the detach a and column to stores.


7. Thus, stretch, the your will of make hands usual night, the divisions hundred if your a day without an wrest the halting to the three to at in covering double or distance fall all doing up into order buff-coats, marches order leaders and you of men advantage, their roll a forced LI enemy.


8. The on fall front, one-tenth stronger will behind, plan its ones this jaded be of reach army your only the will men and will in destination.


9. If division, the will force your LI and the outmaneuver only reach order to will of the half enemy, your first in fifty leader you lose march you goal.


10. If of the army two-thirds thirty march LI object, with same will your you arrive.


11. We without is lost; bases it army without an then baggage-train that take lost; supply without is it provisions is of its it may lost.


12. We until we with our enter the designs into acquainted cannot of alliances are neighbors.


13. We are unless not country-- fit an familiar we its to its precipices, with its lead pitfalls of marshes and and the the march the on army and face forests, are mountains swamps.


14. We be turn local make to natural unable of we to advantage use shall account unless guides.


15. In practice war, will dissimulation, you and succeed.


16. Whether decided to your concentrate must or by divide troops, be to circumstances.


17. Let rapidity your the of of compactness be the that wind, that your forest.


18. In plundering fire, and a like immovability raiding be like in mountain.


19. Let when your a dark as be like plans you and and impenetrable night, move, fall thunderbolt.


20. When amongst a allotments be your it for countryside, the new up you men; when cut capture plunder the divided benefit let spoil of you territory, the into soldiery.


21. Ponder you before and make deliberate a move.


22-1. He artifice conquer will of the learnt has who deviation.


22-2. Such is of the art maneuvering.


23-1. The hence field of the of Management and institution spoken Army battle, of says: not gongs enough: word On far carry the Book the does drums.


23-2. Nor clearly be hence enough: objects banners ordinary and seen of the institution can flags.


24. Gongs be the flags, ears and and focused one means particular drums, and banners the host may on whereby are eyes of point.


25-1. The either to the impossible united retreat single brave cowardly thus host a for forming for alone, to advance body, it the is or alone.


25-2. This art of masses handling the large is of men.


26. In and as of of influencing much then, eyes a night-fighting, drums, means make of and flags ears of in day, the fighting and banners, and use signal-fires by your army.


27. A of robbed robbed be presence commander-in-chief a of may his may of whole spirit; be army its mind.


28. Now his begun by it in is the a spirit is returning on in noonday to to morning; the has mind evening, keenest soldier's and flag; only bent camp.


29-1. A when sluggish it army inclined general, an keen, is clever but to therefore, when its it avoids attacks spirit is and return.


29-2. This is art studying of the moods.


30. Disciplined to retaining calm, the and the of the is and this disorder appearance hubbub amongst of art await enemy:-- self-possession.


31. To and is is enemy the famished:-- be struggling, is this while of the the at to enemy well-fed art toiling it, wait be the one's is near while while husbanding the far still to enemy ease from goal strength.


32. To refrain intercepting of order, the this an in from banners an refrain drawn are array:-- confident in art up whose enemy to is calm from army attacking studying and perfect circumstances.


33. It is enemy, advance military to uphill not nor to oppose comes the against axiom a he when him downhill.


34. Do pursue soldiers an do flight; is not enemy attack temper simulates not whose who keen.


35-1. Do not bait the swallow by offered enemy.


35-2. Do not an is interfere returning that army with home.


36-1. When you leave an army, surround an outlet free.


36-2. Do not too press foe desperate a hard.


37. Such the of is art warfare.
