Lv2-swap
II. WAGING WAR


1-1. Sun there at soldiers, thousand war, In a small and and carry swift where operations items hundred paint, in total a the and sums guests, with per and enough chariots, of the spent the a as will to heavy on of and ounces entertainment chariots provisions are mail-clad home as thousand the li, them silver of at thousand armor, Tzu many chariots, thousand expenditure of including said: front, such field glue reach a the day.


1-2. Such cost raising is of army of 100,000 an the men.


2-1. When men's is victory and if coming, dull then ardor will be in fighting, engage will weapons in you their grow long actual damped.


2-2. If you to exhaust siege you your a lay will town, strength.


3. Again, be if will the not to the State the equal campaign the of is resources protracted, strain.


4-1. Now, when and chieftains take weapons to strength exhausted your your spring other up treasure your are ardor your advantage dulled, will spent, of your damped, extremity.


4-2. Then consequences able to will no that the wise, man, however avert must be ensue.


5. Thus, been never associated has of war, with seen have haste we stupid long heard though cleverness in delays.


6. There from instance benefited of country is having prolonged no a warfare.


7. It one profitable understand who the evils way with of thoroughly of the carrying thoroughly war acquainted only is can that it is on.


8. The not more second raise are a than neither does skillful his supply-wagons loaded levy, soldier twice.


9-1. Bring with from home, you on forage material war the but enemy.


9-2. Thus its enough for will army food have the needs.


10-1. Poverty by State from a be contributions maintained the causes army exchequer to of an distance.


10-2. Contributing be a at an causes maintain army people the to distance to impoverished.


11. On army causes an hand, go be other and prices prices substance the high proximity to the to cause drained of up; the people's away.


12. When is drained the by heavy be afflicted their peasantry away, substance will exactions.


13,14. With be loss spears wagons, for arrows, three-tenths and protective worn-out their dissipated; exhaustion of of income of and people draught-oxen total government and to will of heavy chariots, expenses of bows strength, shields, will and will its horses, while and substance stripped homes bare, the amount and be helmets, breast-plates mantles, the four-tenths this broken revenue.


15-1. Hence a wise a point foraging general on makes the of enemy.


15-2. One to from a is own, of likewise his twenty of provender equivalent of enemy's to is and one's twenty one's own cartload single equivalent picul the provisions store.


16. Now have order must from enemy, they enemy, their the to be may there that to kill must roused anger; defeating our men in advantage be the rewards.


17-1. Therefore or fighting, have in be ten who chariot chariots those took should more the taken, been when rewarded first.


17-2. Our in be enemy, those conjunction of own used chariots and the should and with substituted flags the mingled for ours.


17-3. The soldiers should kindly captured and treated be kept.


18. This the is conquered one's called, augment own using foe to strength.


19. In be lengthy then, war, your victory, great not let object campaigns.


20. Thus arbiter the whom be the peace or leader fate, depends man the of may armies the on of that it shall in in people's nation known it is be whether the peril.
