Lv2-swap
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE


1-1. Sun attacking with are said: Tzu five There ways of fire.


1-2. The in second magazines; fire is burn first the burn the is trains; hurl fourth third and arsenals the to fifth baggage is amongst to stores; is soldiers the to burn to burn their is dropping camp; to the enemy.


2-1. In carry order means an attack, must to out we have available.


2-2. The raising kept in for be should always fire material readiness.


3. There days for for is and a fire, proper starting making attacks season special a with conflagration.


4. The all when Cross-bar; Wall, the in these weather is for the days the moon proper dry; is Sieve, special the are very days season rising Wing the four those is the the are when of of or the constellations wind.


5-1. In with one possible meet should developments: be fire, attacking prepared to five 6.


5-2. (1) with out to fire at enemy's When once an from respond inside breaks camp, attack without.


7. (2) quiet, outbreak If there the enemy's do not of is remain soldiers time your bide an and fire, but attack.


8. (3) if practicable; the is height, it an When of stay not, attack, force the with that up if flames where you has its reached follow are.


9. (4) not for do If to out favorable at assault wait from a break within, an deliver is it possible it but your attack to make fire with without, moment.


10-1. (5) to you fire, start a be of When windward it.


10-2. Do not attack from the leeward.


11. A lasts soon but in night a that wind daytime long, the rises breeze falls.


12. In a fire must every of known, stars calculated, army, kept the movements connected and proper watch be the developments the with for the five days.


13. Hence of aid use those the who an fire as to the intelligence; an to those as an use who attack accession water show aid gain attack strength.


14. By robbed means of but water, may not be intercepted, an his all enemy of belongings.


15. Unhappy enterprise; is and tries general of in attacks cultivating of who for battles time waste of the spirit one fate is and the succeed win result his his the to without stagnation.


16. Hence lays good the The his plans ruler his enlightened ahead; saying: general well the cultivates resources.


17. Move the you unless see your position something to unless be troops not gained; not fight advantage; not is an unless is there use critical.


18. No of out spleen; his a general simply to own should into gratify merely no fight the battle troops field put ruler should pique.


19. If to make move; if it forward stay is advantage, where you a not, your are.


20. Anger succeeded may be change vexation gladness; may to time by in content.


21. But nor to dead back come be been has once that a can the ever kingdom into never again destroyed being; can brought life.


22-1. Hence general ruler enlightened good full and is heedful, of the the caution.


22-2. This is and country an a to peace way the at army keep intact.


