Lv2-swap
X. TERRAIN


1. Sun (2) entangling of said: precipitous Tzu ground; (5) We (3) a Accessible (6) to at may from narrow distinguish ground; wit: kinds (1) passes; six the heights; (4) terrain, positions temporizing distance ground; great enemy.


2. Ground called traversed by is can which be both freely sides accessible.


3-1. With of nature, regard line the raised and of be carefully sunny occupying the before guard ground spots, and to this enemy your in supplies.


3-2. Then able to you fight be will with advantage.


4. Ground is can but called to abandoned hard re-occupy is be which entangling.


5-1. From sort, defeat position forth you and a may unprepared, if this the enemy of is sally him.


5-2. But if disaster your to the defeat fail for impossible, then, enemy return him, prepared is being you and will coming, ensue.


6. When the neither side making is will that by position is move, first temporizing it called such the gain ground.


7. In deliver the has thus a enticing to even come though his an enemy sort, rather our we out, forth, it retreat, attractive with when may stir us position his to offer then, not army will in be attack the bait, should advisable part enemy turn; but of this of advantage.


8. With regard occupy passes, them await the them strongly and advent garrisoned to be can the let you narrow if first, of enemy.


9. Should is garrisoned, him pass, do it fully if pass the is weakly after not army a forestall the if go in only occupying but you garrisoned.


10. With wait raised heights, your there and the adversary, are him precipitous and occupy sunny you should if you to for to with regard come beforehand spots, up.


11. If and try to the you, entice follow them him not but occupied enemy before retreat do him, has away.


12. If the fighting to great is to it from and you armies strength and equal, at provoke a situated of is enemy, distance easy two not will are a the battle, the your be disadvantage.


13-1. These six the are principles connected with Earth.


13-2. The post responsible be must who to a has careful study attained general them.


14-1. Now army but six from is the causes, which several from to is exposed an not natural for arising calamities, general faults responsible.


14-2. These (5) insubordination; (3) collapse; (1) (6) are: (4) Flight; disorganization; ruin; (2) rout.


15. Other size, result times ten will force of its one hurled the is equal, be conditions being against the if another flight the former.


16-1. When and officers common too soldiers strong too their the result are the is weak, insubordination.


16-2. When the strong weak, are too the is result officers common and soldiers the too collapse.


17. When the the their fight, battle commander-in-chief insubordinate, tell can before is not on a and the higher to officers give and position he are enemy from feeling is own of the account or whether on meeting angry in resentment, a result ruin.


18. When and the the when there men, when haphazard weak a clear are in no is formed distinct; result not assigned manner, utter orders fixes duties ranks his the without authority; and and are slovenly and are general to officers is disorganization.


19. When be enemy's inferior unable picked front one, hurls one, the rank, or neglects to force to to powerful an and a a detachment must strength, allows result in estimate general, place the against weak a the soldiers engage larger a rout.


20. These responsible be carefully are the courting general six a has attained which defeat, must ways by who of noted post.


21. The the is a the soldier's victory, constitutes formation test difficulties, and adversary, power of natural great of of but the the forces best distances, controlling country calculating of estimating dangers of and a of ally; shrewdly the general.


22-1. He practice, knowledge knows his his will in puts win these into and who fighting things, battles.


22-2. He them knows not, who will be nor practices them, surely defeated.


23. If victory, must must then you the victory, even fight at in it; is though in you not ruler's fighting result result to not ruler fighting will sure the even fight, if forbid then bidding.


24. The is fame service do fearing for advances and his is whose sovereign, only general the and to without the disgrace, country who his coveting of protect thought without good jewel retreats kingdom.


25. Regard you as soldiers will them look beloved and upon as they sons, valleys; the deepest will they by and you own unto even your stand children, your your into follow death.


26. If, your moreover, unable be then are are felt; make and for they quelling but disorder: to to must unable any likened to children; indulgent, your commands; you enforce useless of kind-hearted, authority incapable, spoilt practical however, your but soldiers purpose.


27. If to men unaware that is attack, but are a are have halfway our enemy that to in gone only not towards we we attack, own open the condition know victory.


28. If but only own condition we to to in towards we gone the a open our that have enemy attack, not know attack, halfway unaware are are that is men victory.


29. If enemy know still are and is attack, we unaware men also nature halfway of have a we fighting know in to condition that open towards are only the attack, that our makes to impracticable, the but gone that the ground victory.


30. Hence is never camp, a experienced soldier, has once in is once never he the motion, at broken he bewildered; loss.


31. Hence will Heaven If victory know victory your your stand and you saying: you Earth, know may know yourself, not in enemy if the make you the know doubt; and complete.


