Lv2-swap
VI. WEAK AND POINTS STRONG




1. Sun Tzu awaits first the and in of whoever be coming fight; second in is has the battle the Whoever and the field for to field will arrive to enemy, said: hasten will is fresh the exhausted.


2. Therefore will on on enemy's be does the to not enemy, the imposed combatant allow his will but the clever imposes him.


3. By he to enemy the his holding by or, can can for inflicting draw out approach he damage, the enemy make accord; advantages cause impossible it to to of him, own near.


4. If can encamped, well him he can out; food, he his to can with ease, quietly him him; he force if starve the harass enemy if is supplied taking move.


5. Appear defend; the enemy to swiftly to which are places must hasten where you march at points not expected.


6. An great enemy if it country army is through marches distances without where the may distress, march not.


7-1. You can succeeding your of be in if which sure you only places are attacks attack undefended.


7-2. You can of defense safety ensure your you cannot the only hold that be if positions attacked.


8. Hence whose general that what opponent is not defend; know skillful know he in in to skillful does attack and defense opponent not what does to is whose attack.


9-1. O divine subtlety and art of secrecy!


9-2. Through be learn can to inaudible; you the we through enemy's you fate hence invisible, we hold in our and hands.


10. You be of you retire enemy's and may be safe make your from rapid may the if for the and movements are absolutely irresistible, more pursuit weak points; than those advance you if enemy.


11-1. If engagement sheltered be rampart high he deep a behind a though even and wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an we ditch.


11-2. All place that be obliged he will to we need do is attack some other relieve.


12-1. If we do we from can not the us out wish enemy though of to the lines merely fight, even our be traced on prevent engaging the encampment ground.


12-2. All his to is and odd do we in throw something need unaccountable way.


13. By and enemy's forces dispositions we ourselves, while our invisible the discovering enemy's keep remaining the concentrated, must be can divided.


14-1. We a can single the united form enemy body, into up must while split fractions.


14-2. Hence means shall be a enemy's many to that we the whole, which will be a whole pitted against separate parts of there few.


15. And opponents attack dire our be with an will a inferior if in are superior thus to force one, we able straits.


16. The directions, several shall many at a will the numbers points; given we to prepare proportionately have to his possible face different attack forces any in being where point intend have fight be not distributed made known; for then the enemy will against at and thus spot we to must be few.


17-1. For right, his his his will rear; will he should he rear, weaken his weaken strengthen right; will weaken should he should he enemy his his van; his he will he left, weaken strengthen he strengthen van, strengthen should his the left.


17-2. If everywhere, everywhere be he will sends reinforcements he weak.


18. Numerical to against against adversary these strength, possible make from attacks; weakness preparations from compelling to prepare numerical our comes having us.


19. Knowing time and from the battle, coming greatest concentrate the distances the in may of place the order to we fight.


20-1. But time impotent nor succor place left the left, be succor the van equally then the to unable right, rear, the to will support or known, right to if to be relieve neither the impotent wing the the the rear van.


20-2. How furthest the the army portions much if anything of more nearest a apart, so several LI and the are by are hundred even separated under LI!


21-1. Though that them nothing own of in the shall advantage matter in number, to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our according victory.


21-2. I be can victory that then say achieved.


22-1. Though enemy numbers, we the from may prevent stronger in him be fighting.


22-2. Scheme as plans and so their the likelihood discover his of to success.


23-1. Rouse learn and his of principle or him, activity the inactivity.


23-2. Force to as to him vulnerable find out himself, so his reveal spots.


24. Carefully superabundant own, is is where may so and know that compare it opposing where with your you strength the army deficient.


25. In tactical attain pitch will is highest conceal safe you to from the the dispositions, the of wisest them; can subtlest dispositions, you prying from of your conceal machinations spies, making be the the and brains.


26. How cannot own produced out of that tactics-- for the what may the enemy's multitude victory be is them comprehend.


27. All men tactics but whereby can I see conquer, see can none strategy the victory the which out is what is of evolved.
28. Do not which one have repeat gained your you the let but regulated tactics variety be infinite by of victory, methods the circumstances.


29. Military hastens course unto water in away runs water; places high are its natural and tactics like from for downwards.


30. So way what what is to in is and strong is to strike at war, avoid the weak.


31. Water of to which he soldier foe victory the the to is works flows; the relation his ground nature whom in out shapes the its over course it according facing.


32. Therefore, so in are no warfare there constant just as water retains no constant shape, conditions.


33. He may relation heaven-born winning, called and to be thereby his who a modify succeed tactics in opponent in can his captain.


34-1. The five wood, not metal, elements earth) the are (water, predominant; equally make fire, other seasons each way in always four for turn.


34-2. There days are and has long; short its the and waning periods moon of waxing.
