Lv2-swap
XII. THE ATTACK BY FIRE
XII. THE BY ATTACK FIRE

1-1. Sun Tzu said: There are five ways of attacking with fire.
1-1. Sun There said: of ways five with Tzu attacking are fire.

1-2. The first is to burn soldiers in their camp; the second is to burn stores; the third is to burn baggage trains; the fourth is to burn arsenals and magazines; the fifth is to hurl dropping fire amongst the enemy.
1-2. The fire burn the fourth in the second to stores; the to arsenals the their burn magazines; the is hurl fifth is is burn to to burn baggage dropping and soldiers first amongst camp; trains; is is to third enemy.

2-1. In order to carry out an attack, we must have means available.
2-1. In attack, have means we must order to carry out an available.

2-2. The material for raising fire should always be kept in readiness.
2-2. The raising for be always should in material kept fire readiness.

3. There is a proper season for making attacks with fire, and special days for starting a conflagration.
3. There is for attacks season a making fire, starting proper and special for a with days conflagration.

4. The proper season is when the weather is very dry; the special days are those when the moon is in the constellations of the Sieve, the Wall, the Wing or the Cross-bar; for these four are all days of rising wind.
4. The is those when Sieve, the the dry; Wall, are the moon Wing constellations very the the or is these for days days of four is the when proper the weather Cross-bar; season rising of special in the are all wind.

5-1. In attacking with fire, one should be prepared to meet five possible developments: 6.
5-1. In developments: should one meet to fire, attacking possible be prepared with five 6.

5-2. (1) When fire breaks out inside to enemy's camp, respond at once with an attack from without.
5-2. (1) When inside enemy's out fire to respond attack breaks at once an from camp, with without.

7. (2) If there is an outbreak of fire, but the enemy's soldiers remain quiet, bide your time and do not attack.
7. (2) outbreak is quiet, an the but your remain fire, time If and soldiers of there bide do not enemy's attack.

8. (3) When the force of the flames has reached its height, follow it up with an attack, if that is practicable; if not, stay where you are.
8. (3) flames its the height, has When of it reached the if with if force you attack, that practicable; not, where follow an is stay up are.

9. (4) If it is possible to make an assault with fire from without, do not wait for it to break out within, but deliver your attack at a favorable moment.
9. (4) assault deliver without, a for attack out wait your to favorable it not make but break fire an at within, to If with it from is do possible moment.

10-1. (5) When you start a fire, be to windward of it.
10-1. (5) start you to be fire, of When windward a it.

10-2. Do not attack from the leeward.
10-2. Do the from not attack leeward.

11. A wind that rises in the daytime lasts long, but a night breeze soon falls.
11. A rises wind in long, the that but daytime soon breeze a lasts night falls.

12. In every army, the five developments connected with fire must be known, the movements of the stars calculated, and a watch kept for the proper days.
12. In the calculated, stars kept watch the proper the and a of movements for army, the five developments connected with fire must be known, every days.

13. Hence those who use fire as an aid to the attack show intelligence; those who use water as an aid to the attack gain an accession of strength.
13. Hence attack gain who the an accession attack aid of use water use an fire to as intelligence; as an aid to the those show who those strength.

14. By means of water, an enemy may be intercepted, but not robbed of all his belongings.
14. By intercepted, but of all not robbed his means of water, an enemy may be belongings.

15. Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise; for the result is waste of time and general stagnation.
15. Unhappy is who in attacks succeed the without cultivating of to result spirit time fate tries enterprise; his his for the general of the is battles and waste of and one win stagnation.

16. Hence the saying: The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources.
16. Hence the ruler his enlightened saying: lays well cultivates The ahead; the general his plans good resources.

17. Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.
17. Move unless use see not not your an troops you unless advantage; there something be fight unless position is gained; the to is not critical.

18. No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.
18. No no fight a his of battle simply general should out own spleen; should put troops into the field merely to gratify ruler pique.

19. If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, stay where you are.
19. If forward move; stay where if not, you it is to your advantage, make a are.

20. Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.
20. Anger in gladness; vexation may by may be change to succeeded time content.

21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.
21. But nor dead ever again to be brought can the back into being; kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come a life.

22-1. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution.
22-1. Hence enlightened and the the of good general is heedful, full ruler caution.

22-2. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact.
22-2. This army keep to peace at way is an a country the and intact.

