Lv2-swap
V. ENERGY
V. ENERGY

1. Sun Tzu said: The control of a large force is the same principle as the control of a few men: it is merely a question of dividing up their numbers.
1. Sun force a principle up of of it control question of their a the a merely men: the large dividing is few Tzu is said: same The as control numbers.

2. Fighting with a large army under your command is nowise different from fighting with a small one: it is merely a question of instituting signs and signals.
2. Fighting your nowise under different command with army fighting is a question a it large and one: is a of signs from small merely instituting with signals.

3. To ensure that your whole host may withstand the brunt of the enemy's attack and remain unshaken-- this is effected by maneuvers direct and indirect.
3. To that withstand whole the ensure brunt host of your the may enemy's and unshaken-- is by direct attack this maneuvers remain and effected indirect.

4. That the impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed against an egg-- this is effected by the science of weak points and strong.
4. That against effected is of science this and points by the egg-- an weak impact of your army may be like a grindstone dashed the strong.

5. In all fighting, the direct method may be used for joining battle, but indirect methods will be needed in order to secure victory.
5. In all method for may fighting, be indirect used the but battle, be direct to will order needed secure joining methods in victory.

6. Indirect tactics, efficiently applied, are inexhaustible as Heaven and Earth, unending as the flow of rivers and streams; like the sun and moon, they end but to begin anew; like the four seasons, they pass away to return once more.
6. Indirect to flow once they as Earth, unending but of rivers like begin moon, Heaven to like the streams; pass four efficiently as are they the the sun away anew; inexhaustible tactics, return and and end seasons, applied, and more.

7. There are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations of these five give rise to more melodies than can ever be heard.
7. There give more melodies of be than can rise to ever these five not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations are heard.

8. There are not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, and black), yet in combination they produce more hues than can ever been seen.
8. There and they combination than hues in been ever produce more yet black), can not more than five primary colors (blue, yellow, red, white, are seen.

9. There are not more than five cardinal tastes (sour, acrid, salt, sweet, bitter), yet combinations of them yield more flavors than can ever be tasted.
9. There not tastes than (sour, are acrid, five salt, more sweet, cardinal bitter), combinations them more than ever yet yield can of be flavors tasted.

10. In battle, there are not more than two methods of attack-- the direct and the indirect; yet these two in combination give rise to an endless series of maneuvers.
10. In two there battle, direct methods are attack-- the endless not the yet in more of two to than indirect; combination rise an series of and these give maneuvers.

11-1. The direct and the indirect lead on to each other in turn.
11-1. The on other in to each direct and the indirect lead turn.

11-2. It is like moving in a circle-- you never come to an end.
11-2. It like circle-- you is an never come in a to moving end.

11-3. Who can exhaust the possibilities of their combination?
11-3. Who their of possibilities the exhaust can combination?

12. The onset of troops is like the rush of a torrent which will even roll stones along in its course.
12. The its which is rush of even will like along stones of a torrent in onset troops roll the course.

13. The quality of decision is like the well-timed swoop of a falcon which enables it to strike and destroy its victim.
13. The like decision enables is of swoop to which well-timed strike quality and falcon the of it destroy its a victim.

14. Therefore the good fighter will be terrible in his onset, and prompt in his decision.
14. Therefore fighter the will his be good onset, terrible his in and in prompt decision.

15. Energy may be likened to the bending of a crossbow; decision, to the releasing of a trigger.
15. Energy may the of to be bending crossbow; of likened decision, to releasing a a the trigger.

16. Amid the turmoil and tumult of battle, there may be seeming disorder and yet no real disorder at all; amid confusion and chaos, your array may be without head or tail, yet it will be proof against defeat.
16. Amid against disorder tumult and may there and your disorder yet confusion may array of head without it real the or battle, be no yet chaos, at tail, will turmoil and all; proof be amid be seeming defeat.

17. Simulated disorder postulates perfect discipline, simulated fear postulates courage; simulated weakness postulates strength.
17. Simulated postulates fear postulates disorder postulates courage; simulated discipline, simulated weakness perfect strength.

18. Hiding order beneath the cloak of disorder is simply a question of subdivision; concealing courage under a show of timidity presupposes a fund of latent energy; masking strength with weakness is to be effected by tactical dispositions.
18. Hiding order question of presupposes a disorder concealing fund show subdivision; a latent energy; cloak weakness masking effected courage the with of simply timidity is strength a tactical be under beneath to by of of is dispositions.

19-1. Thus one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on the move maintains deceitful appearances, according to which the enemy will act.
19-1. Thus to the will according the move enemy which maintains on one enemy is deceitful at keeping the appearances, who skillful act.

19-2. He sacrifices something, that the enemy may snatch at it.
19-2. He the snatch at enemy may something, that sacrifices it.

20. By holding out baits, he keeps him on the march; then with a body of picked men he lies in wait for him.
20. By holding keeps march; him out on body the baits, a with men he wait picked in he for then of lies him.

21-1. The clever combatant looks to the effect of combined energy, and does not require too much from individuals.
21-1. The to much combined energy, not clever from does and the effect require too combatant of looks individuals.

21-2. Hence his ability to pick out the right men and utilize combined energy.
21-2. Hence ability the right his combined men and pick out utilize to energy.

22-1. When he utilizes combined energy, his fighting men become as it were like unto rolling logs or stones.
22-1. When energy, logs become as like he or were it his fighting unto rolling utilizes men combined stones.

22-2. For it is the nature of a log or stone to remain motionless on level ground, and to move when on a slope; if four-cornered, to come to a standstill, but if round-shaped, to go rolling down.
22-2. For it to of on stone a on slope; to motionless a four-cornered, to nature standstill, come to level the a remain or when but to and rolling round-shaped, ground, is if go if move log down.

23-1. Thus the energy developed by good fighting men is as the momentum of a round stone rolled down a mountain thousands of feet in height.
23-1. Thus energy men by is the as good the developed momentum fighting of round rolled a thousands feet a down of stone in mountain height.

23-2. So much on the subject of energy.
23-2. So much subject of on the energy.
