Lv2-swap
II. WAGING WAR
II. WAGING WAR

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand li, the expenditure at home and at the front, including entertainment of guests, small items such as glue and paint, and sums spent on chariots and armor, will reach the total of a thousand ounces of silver per day.
1-1. Sun heavy war, chariots, the and operations a field hundred where thousand a mail-clad the soldiers, thousand with there provisions swift enough of to chariots, carry are them as a In thousand many Tzu in the reach said: guests, at and the including of small such glue paint, sums on and will the of thousand of per expenditure at entertainment items and spent armor, total ounces li, front, as chariots a home and silver day.

1-2. Such is the cost of raising an army of 100,000 men.
1-2. Such cost the army an raising 100,000 is of of men.

2-1. When you engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in coming, then men's weapons will grow dull and their ardor will be damped.
2-1. When weapons dull and coming, be their ardor will grow will then men's engage in actual fighting, if victory is long in you damped.

2-2. If you lay siege to a town, you will exhaust your strength.
2-2. If town, exhaust your you will you lay siege to a strength.

3. Again, if the campaign is protracted, the resources of the State will not be equal to the strain.
3. Again, is to of the not if the will State protracted, the be equal the resources campaign strain.

4-1. Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity.
4-1. Now, your your dulled, strength ardor when are and damped, your to treasure chieftains weapons your other will up take of exhausted spent, spring advantage your extremity.

4-2. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue.
4-2. Then however no wise, to will man, avert be must that the able consequences ensue.

5. Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.
5. Thus, war, heard of in has never have with been stupid haste seen associated cleverness though we long delays.

6. There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.
6. There country from prolonged having benefited is no instance of a warfare.

7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.
7. It can the profitable of it way of thoroughly understand carrying war that only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils is on.

8. The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice.
8. The skillful raise second not soldier a neither more does are his loaded than levy, supply-wagons twice.

9-1. Bring war material with you from home, but forage on the enemy.
9-1. Bring home, on the but forage war material with you from enemy.

9-2. Thus the army will have food enough for its needs.
9-2. Thus have for its food enough army will the needs.

10-1. Poverty of the State exchequer causes an army to be maintained by contributions from a distance.
10-1. Poverty to be contributions from maintained by a of the State exchequer causes an army distance.

10-2. Contributing to maintain an army at a distance causes the people to be impoverished.
10-2. Contributing be at army the causes an to to a distance maintain people impoverished.

11. On the other hand, the proximity of an army causes prices to go up; and high prices cause the people's substance to be drained away.
11. On other an the army the causes proximity prices hand, to of go and prices the substance be up; cause to high drained people's away.

12. When their substance is drained away, the peasantry will be afflicted by heavy exactions.
12. When heavy away, drained be will is their by the peasantry substance afflicted exactions.

13,14. With this loss of substance and exhaustion of strength, the homes of the people will be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their income will be dissipated; while government expenses for broken chariots, worn-out horses, breast-plates and helmets, bows and arrows, spears and shields, protective mantles, draught-oxen and heavy wagons, will amount to four-tenths of its total revenue.
13,14. With of broken the of people while will substance be worn-out stripped and bare, be and exhaustion three-tenths breast-plates of of their expenses dissipated; strength, for this horses, the bows income and homes draught-oxen loss will to of total and shields, and amount its spears wagons, helmets, four-tenths mantles, will government chariots, and arrows, protective heavy revenue.

15-1. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy.
15-1. Hence point on the of foraging a wise general makes a enemy.

15-2. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store.
15-2. One equivalent of cartload own, to the of likewise from enemy's one's single his provisions own of to is a provender equivalent twenty one's twenty and picul is store.

16. Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards.
16. Now be they that the advantage have enemy, from their to may there must kill defeating be to the enemy, our men must in roused order anger; rewards.

17-1. Therefore in chariot fighting, when ten or more chariots have been taken, those should be rewarded who took the first.
17-1. Therefore the taken, when more chariots should those ten who rewarded chariot have been took in fighting, be or first.

17-2. Our own flags should be substituted for those of the enemy, and the chariots mingled and used in conjunction with ours.
17-2. Our substituted should chariots be the of and the those used own in and for flags mingled conjunction with enemy, ours.

17-3. The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept.
17-3. The captured soldiers kindly treated should be and kept.

18. This is called, using the conquered foe to augment one's own strength.
18. This foe one's own to augment is called, using the conquered strength.

19. In war, then, let your great object be victory, not lengthy campaigns.
19. In object not lengthy be victory, war, then, let your great campaigns.

20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril.
20. Thus it the the fate, of may the man it of nation whom peace be leader depends people's is whether the in known on shall the arbiter be in or that armies peril.
