Lv2-swap
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS
VIII. VARIATION IN TACTICS

1. Sun Tzu said: In war, the general receives his commands from the sovereign, collects his army and concentrates his forces.
1. Sun his the war, receives his collects sovereign, the and army said: commands from concentrates Tzu In his general forces.

2-1. When in difficult country, do not encamp.
2-1. When in do not difficult country, encamp.

2-2. In country where high roads intersect, join hands with your allies.
2-2. In high where hands join intersect, your country with roads allies.

2-3. Do not linger in dangerously isolated positions.
2-3. Do not dangerously isolated linger in positions.

2-4. In hemmed-in situations, you must resort to stratagem.
2-4. In to resort must you situations, hemmed-in stratagem.

2-5. In desperate position, you must fight.
2-5. In must you desperate position, fight.

3. There are roads which must not be followed, armies which must be not attacked, towns which must not be besieged, positions which must not be contested, commands of the sovereign which must not be obeyed.
3. There must armies followed, be be must which positions besieged, must not must of roads must be not not attacked, commands which be sovereign the which towns contested, which not are be not which obeyed.

4. The general who thoroughly understands the advantages that accompany variation of tactics knows how to handle his troops.
4. The understands handle accompany variation knows general his tactics of the advantages how to who that thoroughly troops.

5. The general who does not understand these, may be well acquainted with the configuration of the country, yet he will not be able to turn his knowledge to practical account.
5. The be to the to country, his not the turn understand practical yet of these, able will acquainted may knowledge be he general well who with does configuration not account.

6. So, the student of war who is unversed in the art of war of varying his plans, even though he be acquainted with the Five Advantages, will fail to make the best use of his men.
6. So, student the is he art who varying acquainted though of with the will of the Advantages, his of in fail plans, unversed Five make use his war best to the be of war even men.

7. Hence in the wise leader's plans, considerations of advantage and of disadvantage will be blended together.
7. Hence advantage and will be of disadvantage blended in the wise leader's plans, considerations of together.

8. If our expectation of advantage be tempered in this way, we may succeed in accomplishing the essential part of our schemes.
8. If be of in advantage way, this the succeed in essential our part may tempered expectation accomplishing of our we schemes.

9. If, on the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we are always ready to seize an advantage, we may extricate ourselves from misfortune.
9. If, to advantage, we are from may extricate seize an ourselves always ready the other hand, in the midst of difficulties we on misfortune.

10. Reduce the hostile chiefs by inflicting damage on them; and make trouble for them, and keep them constantly engaged; hold out specious allurements, and make them rush to any given point.
10. Reduce chiefs by make and for inflicting hold them and damage to engaged; and the constantly out them them; them, allurements, given hostile specious make rush any on trouble keep point.

11. The art of war teaches us to rely not on the likelihood of the enemy's not coming, but on our own readiness to receive him; not on the chance of his not attacking, but rather on the fact that we have made our position unassailable.
11. The us on to chance rely enemy's not his on own the attacking, but of readiness rather not to of art but coming, fact of made him; that war have the likelihood teaches our on the not on we position our the not receive unassailable.

12. There are five dangerous faults which may affect a general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which leads to capture; (3) a hasty temper, which can be provoked by insults; (4) a delicacy of honor which is sensitive to shame; (5) over-solicitude for his men, which exposes him to worry and trouble.
12. There honor can to which for a exposes sensitive and provoked (5) shame; to capture; men, over-solicitude is insults; to his hasty temper, be which (4) a are him dangerous leads which worry affect of general: (1) Recklessness, which leads to destruction; (2) cowardice, which (3) which by delicacy five faults may a trouble.

13. These are the five besetting sins of a general, ruinous to the conduct of war.
13. These five are besetting general, sins the ruinous of of conduct to a the war.

14-1. When an army is overthrown and its leader slain, the cause will surely be found among these five dangerous faults.
14-1. When dangerous will overthrown leader slain, be surely and these among army the cause five an is found its faults.

14-2. Let them be a subject of meditation.
14-2. Let them subject of be a meditation.

