Lv2-swap
III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM
III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
1-1. Sun art not best it is Tzu enemy's the intact; of destroy country so said: of and whole the is to take In war, and shatter thing the all practical to good.

1-2. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.
1-2. So, than entire to a a to company detachment destroy is a capture than better or regiment, destroy to recapture an army entire too, to it it, them.

2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
2. Hence to in is all fight your supreme battles and excellence; supreme in conquer resistance consists enemy's breaking without not excellence the fighting.

3. Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities.
3. Thus field; the policy the to prevent the army walled forces; all the best is the and enemy's next in worst attack junction in of highest order of is is next balk besiege enemy's to the to of the is enemy's the form generalship to the plans; cities.

4-1. The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided.
4-1. The be besiege to it if not rule possibly walled cities is, can avoided.

4-2. The preparation of mantlets, movable shelters, and various implements of war, will take up three whole months; and the piling up of mounds over against the walls will take three months more.
4-2. The and three war, will three preparation the and mounds various walls piling months of take of up of take over months; mantlets, implements the against will movable up shelters, whole more.

5-1. The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken.
5-1. The general, irritation, like ants, assault unable with the one-third launch are that town to will of swarming men his men remains control result slain, to the while the still his his untaken.

5-2. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege.
5-2. Such a of effects disastrous the are siege.

6. Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.
6. Therefore without kingdom captures in laying lengthy he without without the the siege cities enemy's their them; fighting; troops operations overthrows to the any skillful he leader their subdues field.

7-1. With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete.
7-1. With his will of dispute forces the thus, mastery intact and Empire, a he will losing triumph man, be the without his complete.

7-2. This is the method of attacking by stratagem.
7-2. This by attacking of method the is stratagem.

8. It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two.
8. It surround forces our if to in to to five ten attack to as the our him; war, the enemy's twice one, if to numerous, are one, if divide him; is into army rule two.

9. If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him.
9. If in we avoid every quite flee way, unequal from we enemy; the can can in if we offer battle; if slightly inferior equally numbers, matched, can him.

10. Hence, though an obstinate fight may be made by a small force, in the end it must be captured by the larger force.
10. Hence, though may a be an made the by obstinate in force, must fight the it by be larger small end captured force.

11. Now the general is the bulwark of the State; if the bulwark is complete at all points; the State will be strong; if the bulwark is defective, the State will be weak.
11. Now of will the the at the State the if the defective, will be general is strong; be if State the points; is State; is bulwark bulwark the complete bulwark all weak.

12. There are three ways in which a ruler can bring misfortune upon his army:--
12. There his which in bring can ways are upon a ruler three misfortune army:--

13-1. (1) By commanding the army to advance or to retreat, being ignorant of the fact that it cannot obey.
13-1. (1) retreat, army to to ignorant of the it the advance or fact that being By commanding cannot obey.

13-2. This is called hobbling the army.
13-2. This the hobbling is called army.

14-1. (2) By attempting to govern an army in the same way as he administers a kingdom, being ignorant of the conditions which obtain in an army.
14-1. (2) he ignorant being which conditions kingdom, an in of the a administers obtain attempting to govern an army in the same way as By army.

14-2. This causes restlessness in the soldier's minds.
14-2. This causes the soldier's restlessness in minds.

15-1. (3) By employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances.
15-1. (3) to ignorance officers army without the of of of principle employing discrimination, through adaptation By the military his circumstances.

15-2. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers.
15-2. This shakes of the the confidence soldiers.

16-1. But when the army is restless and distrustful, trouble is sure to come from the other feudal princes.
16-1. But is other trouble is come when feudal to sure restless and from the the distrustful, army princes.

16-2. This is simply bringing anarchy into the army, and flinging victory away.
16-2. This the flinging victory army, and is simply bringing anarchy into away.

17-1. Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
17-1. Thus may five that essentials we for there victory: know (1) are He win knows to and not will when when who to fight fight.

17-2. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
17-2. (2) inferior knows who both handle win He and how to will superior forces.

17-3. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks.
17-3. (3) by the throughout all same spirit its He will win whose army is animated ranks.

17-4. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.
17-4. (4) will himself, waits He enemy to take who, prepared the win unprepared.

17-5. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.
17-5. (5) and is with by not interfered the He will win who has military capacity sovereign.

18-1. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
18-1. Hence know If not you know and the need enemy result the of you the saying: fear a hundred yourself, battles.

18-2. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.
18-2. If but suffer for every you you a gained victory not the will also know enemy, yourself defeat.

18-3. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
18-3. If every enemy the will you neither you in nor yourself, know succumb battle.
