Lv2-swap
X. TERRAIN
X. TERRAIN

1. Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) entangling ground; (3) temporizing ground; (4) narrow passes; (5) precipitous heights; (6) positions at a great distance from the enemy.
1. Sun said: terrain, six temporizing to distinguish ground; (4) (3) wit: narrow passes; heights; We a precipitous the Accessible of (6) entangling kinds (5) at distance (2) (1) great positions Tzu ground; from may ground; enemy.

2. Ground which can be freely traversed by both sides is called accessible.
2. Ground by is called both sides which can be freely traversed accessible.

3-1. With regard to ground of this nature, be before the enemy in occupying the raised and sunny spots, and carefully guard your line of supplies.
3-1. With to be of before regard the this enemy ground in nature, occupying raised sunny and guard line the spots, your and of carefully supplies.

3-2. Then you will be able to fight with advantage.
3-2. Then you will to fight be able with advantage.

4. Ground which can be abandoned but is hard to re-occupy is called entangling.
4. Ground can is hard which called to re-occupy abandoned but is be entangling.

5-1. From a position of this sort, if the enemy is unprepared, you may sally forth and defeat him.
5-1. From this and enemy is may a defeat you unprepared, sort, if sally forth position the of him.

5-2. But if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and you fail to defeat him, then, return being impossible, disaster will ensue.
5-2. But return your will then, impossible, fail coming, being to and if disaster enemy defeat prepared for you him, the is ensue.

6. When the position is such that neither side will gain by making the first move, it is called temporizing ground.
6. When temporizing making such side will first the that is it position gain by called the is move, neither ground.

7. In a position of this sort, even though the enemy should offer us an attractive bait, it will be advisable not to stir forth, but rather to retreat, thus enticing the enemy in his turn; then, when part of his army has come out, we may deliver our attack with advantage.
7. In the but enemy turn; should not offer a us to an position attractive be bait, of advisable thus forth, this retreat, stir enemy sort, then, the his even out, it our though of in deliver when we army attack will to rather enticing his part has may with come advantage.

8. With regard to narrow passes, if you can occupy them first, let them be strongly garrisoned and await the advent of the enemy.
8. With regard if them you to can be occupy narrow them let and passes, of garrisoned advent await the first, strongly the enemy.

9. Should the army forestall you in occupying a pass, do not go after him if the pass is fully garrisoned, but only if it is weakly garrisoned.
9. Should occupying do in not a the you after pass, army only if is forestall weakly pass fully but if is go the garrisoned, it him garrisoned.

10. With regard to precipitous heights, if you are beforehand with your adversary, you should occupy the raised and sunny spots, and there wait for him to come up.
10. With your for occupy there sunny to wait spots, come precipitous raised the him heights, and and you if you are beforehand with regard adversary, to should up.

11. If the enemy has occupied them before you, do not follow him, but retreat and try to entice him away.
11. If him him, occupied you, do retreat but them to try enemy not follow entice the has and before away.

12. If you are situated at a great distance from the enemy, and the strength of the two armies is equal, it is not easy to provoke a battle, and fighting will be to your disadvantage.
12. If two from distance is and at the it equal, enemy, easy not battle, are be to a the strength a is great fighting and the of provoke will armies you your to situated disadvantage.

13-1. These six are the principles connected with Earth.
13-1. These with connected principles the are six Earth.

13-2. The general who has attained a responsible post must be careful to study them.
13-2. The study a attained be must has general to responsible post who careful them.

14-1. Now an army is exposed to six several calamities, not arising from natural causes, but from faults for which the general is responsible.
14-1. Now an to not six army several causes, calamities, is natural from faults exposed general from the for is arising but which responsible.

14-2. These are: (1) Flight; (2) insubordination; (3) collapse; (4) ruin; (5) disorganization; (6) rout.
14-2. These (6) insubordination; (2) ruin; (4) Flight; are: disorganization; (3) collapse; (1) (5) rout.

15. Other conditions being equal, if one force is hurled against another ten times its size, the result will be the flight of the former.
15. Other size, will be ten the the flight the result of times its being equal, if one force is hurled against another conditions former.

16-1. When the common soldiers are too strong and their officers too weak, the result is insubordination.
16-1. When their officers the result too weak, is the common soldiers are too strong and insubordination.

16-2. When the officers are too strong and the common soldiers too weak, the result is collapse.
16-2. When common soldiers the result too weak, is the officers are too strong and the collapse.

17. When the higher officers are angry and insubordinate, and on meeting the enemy give battle on their own account from a feeling of resentment, before the commander-in-chief can tell whether or not he is in a position to fight, the result is ruin.
17. When are their angry commander-in-chief and enemy insubordinate, tell the account on or from meeting resentment, he can a not in a battle the the fight, of result higher give and feeling officers whether before to is position on own the is ruin.

18. When the general is weak and without authority; when his orders are not clear and distinct; when there are no fixes duties assigned to officers and men, and the ranks are formed in a slovenly haphazard manner, the result is utter disorganization.
18. When manner, distinct; utter and result are when and not there when ranks fixes his officers formed the no in a the clear is haphazard and duties orders the are authority; men, is slovenly to weak without and assigned are general disorganization.

19. When a general, unable to estimate the enemy's strength, allows an inferior force to engage a larger one, or hurls a weak detachment against a powerful one, and neglects to place picked soldiers in the front rank, the result must be rout.
19. When rank, a be powerful result inferior strength, and force one, larger to a allows a picked neglects hurls soldiers in a to unable front estimate weak an the or enemy's one, must the against to the engage detachment place general, rout.

20. These are six ways of courting defeat, which must be carefully noted by the general who has attained a responsible post.
20. These courting ways the of be must who by which has are attained noted defeat, six general a responsible carefully post.

21. The natural formation of the country is the soldier's best ally; but a power of estimating the adversary, of controlling the forces of victory, and of shrewdly calculating difficulties, dangers and distances, constitutes the test of a great general.
21. The formation a of of the soldier's but and estimating of controlling shrewdly victory, is calculating difficulties, distances, the of and a ally; best constitutes adversary, of of test the the country natural forces the great power dangers general.

22-1. He who knows these things, and in fighting puts his knowledge into practice, will win his battles.
22-1. He who and fighting things, knows in his win these knowledge into will his puts practice, battles.

22-2. He who knows them not, nor practices them, will surely be defeated.
22-2. He practices surely be them, will who knows them not, nor defeated.

23. If fighting is sure to result in victory, then you must fight, even though the ruler forbid it; if fighting will not result in victory, then you must not fight even at the ruler's bidding.
23. If forbid then victory, if fight, to ruler will fighting must in result must is at victory, result even though you not in fight not you the then even it; fighting ruler's the sure bidding.

24. The general who advances without coveting fame and retreats without fearing disgrace, whose only thought is to protect his country and do good service for his sovereign, is the jewel of the kingdom.
24. The general fame thought to only who protect his do retreats his and jewel advances and good is fearing service for the without country sovereign, disgrace, whose is the of coveting without kingdom.

25. Regard your soldiers as your children, and they will follow you into the deepest valleys; look upon them as your own beloved sons, and they will stand by you even unto death.
25. Regard and even you by valleys; your as them sons, they stand your unto soldiers the beloved own follow you and upon as will will they into your deepest children, look death.

26. If, however, you are indulgent, but unable to make your authority felt; kind-hearted, but unable to enforce your commands; and incapable, moreover, of quelling disorder: then your soldiers must be likened to spoilt children; they are useless for any practical purpose.
26. If, are unable indulgent, disorder: but authority your your but enforce your must moreover, make then likened be commands; children; spoilt for kind-hearted, any they to incapable, to however, quelling unable to you practical of felt; and soldiers are useless purpose.

27. If we know that our own men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the enemy is not open to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
27. If that our condition are attack, own is that attack, men only enemy a we the not have in but to towards know open we gone halfway are to unaware victory.

28. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, but are unaware that our own men are not in a condition to attack, we have gone only halfway towards victory.
28. If that the but our unaware enemy in men attack, is only not attack, we are a have to that to towards know condition we gone halfway open are own victory.

29. If we know that the enemy is open to attack, and also know that our men are in a condition to attack, but are unaware that the nature of the ground makes fighting impracticable, we have still gone only halfway towards victory.
29. If still men towards that only also to nature know in are the to attack, unaware makes of condition fighting impracticable, we that that have enemy attack, and gone a open the halfway we are the is our but ground know victory.

30. Hence the experienced soldier, once in motion, is never bewildered; once he has broken camp, he is never at a loss.
30. Hence in soldier, broken once bewildered; never he has is is the never he motion, experienced camp, at a once loss.

31. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, your victory will not stand in doubt; if you know Heaven and know Earth, you may make your victory complete.
31. Hence If you yourself, not victory know you in know the make if know the doubt; know you and will and victory saying: Heaven Earth, may your enemy your stand complete.

