Lv2-swap
VI. WEAK POINTS AND STRONG
VI. WEAK AND POINTS STRONG


1. Sun Tzu said: Whoever is first in the field and awaits the coming of the enemy, will be fresh for the fight; whoever is second in the field and has to hasten to battle will arrive exhausted.
1. Sun Tzu awaits first the and in of whoever be coming fight; second in is has the battle the Whoever and the field for to field will arrive to enemy, said: hasten will is fresh the exhausted.

2. Therefore the clever combatant imposes his will on the enemy, but does not allow the enemy's will to be imposed on him.
2. Therefore will on on enemy's be does the to not enemy, the imposed combatant allow his will but the clever imposes him.

3. By holding out advantages to him, he can cause the enemy to approach of his own accord; or, by inflicting damage, he can make it impossible for the enemy to draw near.
3. By he to enemy the his holding by or, can can for inflicting draw out approach he damage, the enemy make accord; advantages cause impossible it to to of him, own near.

4. If the enemy is taking his ease, he can harass him; if well supplied with food, he can starve him out; if quietly encamped, he can force him to move.
4. If can encamped, well him he can out; food, he his to can with ease, quietly him him; he force if starve the harass enemy if is supplied taking move.

5. Appear at points which the enemy must hasten to defend; march swiftly to places where you are not expected.
5. Appear defend; the enemy to swiftly to which are places must hasten where you march at points not expected.

6. An army may march great distances without distress, if it marches through country where the enemy is not.
6. An great enemy if it country army is through marches distances without where the may distress, march not.

7-1. You can be sure of succeeding in your attacks if you only attack places which are undefended.
7-1. You can succeeding your of be in if which sure you only places are attacks attack undefended.

7-2. You can ensure the safety of your defense if you only hold positions that cannot be attacked.
7-2. You can of defense safety ensure your you cannot the only hold that be if positions attacked.

8. Hence that general is skillful in attack whose opponent does not know what to defend; and he is skillful in defense whose opponent does not know what to attack.
8. Hence whose general that what opponent is not defend; know skillful know he in in to skillful does attack and defense opponent not what does to is whose attack.

9-1. O divine art of subtlety and secrecy!
9-1. O divine subtlety and art of secrecy!

9-2. Through you we learn to be invisible, through you inaudible; and hence we can hold the enemy's fate in our hands.
9-2. Through be learn can to inaudible; you the we through enemy's you fate hence invisible, we hold in our and hands.

10. You may advance and be absolutely irresistible, if you make for the enemy's weak points; you may retire and be safe from pursuit if your movements are more rapid than those of the enemy.
10. You be of you retire enemy's and may be safe make your from rapid may the if for the and movements are absolutely irresistible, more pursuit weak points; than those advance you if enemy.

11-1. If we wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an engagement even though he be sheltered behind a high rampart and a deep ditch.
11-1. If engagement sheltered be rampart high he deep a behind a though even and wish to fight, the enemy can be forced to an we ditch.

11-2. All we need do is attack some other place that he will be obliged to relieve.
11-2. All place that be obliged he will to we need do is attack some other relieve.

12-1. If we do not wish to fight, we can prevent the enemy from engaging us even though the lines of our encampment be merely traced out on the ground.
12-1. If we do we from can not the us out wish enemy though of to the lines merely fight, even our be traced on prevent engaging the encampment ground.

12-2. All we need do is to throw something odd and unaccountable in his way.
12-2. All his to is and odd do we in throw something need unaccountable way.

13. By discovering the enemy's dispositions and remaining invisible ourselves, we can keep our forces concentrated, while the enemy's must be divided.
13. By and enemy's forces dispositions we ourselves, while our invisible the discovering enemy's keep remaining the concentrated, must be can divided.

14-1. We can form a single united body, while the enemy must split up into fractions.
14-1. We a can single the united form enemy body, into up must while split fractions.

14-2. Hence there will be a whole pitted against separate parts of a whole, which means that we shall be many to the enemy's few.
14-2. Hence means shall be a enemy's many to that we the whole, which will be a whole pitted against separate parts of there few.

15. And if we are able thus to attack an inferior force with a superior one, our opponents will be in dire straits.
15. And opponents attack dire our be with an will a inferior if in are superior thus to force one, we able straits.

16. The spot where we intend to fight must not be made known; for then the enemy will have to prepare against a possible attack at several different points; and his forces being thus distributed in many directions, the numbers we shall have to face at any given point will be proportionately few.
16. The directions, several shall many at a will the numbers points; given we to prepare proportionately have to his possible face different attack forces any in being where point intend have fight be not distributed made known; for then the enemy will against at and thus spot we to must be few.

17-1. For should the enemy strengthen his van, he will weaken his rear; should he strengthen his rear, he will weaken his van; should he strengthen his left, he will weaken his right; should he strengthen his right, he will weaken his left.
17-1. For right, his his his will rear; will he should he rear, weaken his weaken strengthen right; will weaken should he should he enemy his his van; his he will he left, weaken strengthen he strengthen van, strengthen should his the left.

17-2. If he sends reinforcements everywhere, he will everywhere be weak.
17-2. If everywhere, everywhere be he will sends reinforcements he weak.

18. Numerical weakness comes from having to prepare against possible attacks; numerical strength, from compelling our adversary to make these preparations against us.
18. Numerical to against against adversary these strength, possible make from attacks; weakness preparations from compelling to prepare numerical our comes having us.

19. Knowing the place and the time of the coming battle, we may concentrate from the greatest distances in order to fight.
19. Knowing time and from the battle, coming greatest concentrate the distances the in may of place the order to we fight.

20-1. But if neither time nor place be known, then the left wing will be impotent to succor the right, the right equally impotent to succor the left, the van unable to relieve the rear, or the rear to support the van.
20-1. But time impotent nor succor place left the left, be succor the van equally then the to unable right, rear, the to will support or known, right to if to be relieve neither the impotent wing the the the rear van.

20-2. How much more so if the furthest portions of the army are anything under a hundred LI apart, and even the nearest are separated by several LI!
20-2. How furthest the the army portions much if anything of more nearest a apart, so several LI and the are by are hundred even separated under LI!

21-1. Though according to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our own in number, that shall advantage them nothing in the matter of victory.
21-1. Though that them nothing own of in the shall advantage matter in number, to my estimate the soldiers of Yueh exceed our according victory.

21-2. I say then that victory can be achieved.
21-2. I be can victory that then say achieved.

22-1. Though the enemy be stronger in numbers, we may prevent him from fighting.
22-1. Though enemy numbers, we the from may prevent stronger in him be fighting.

22-2. Scheme so as to discover his plans and the likelihood of their success.
22-2. Scheme as plans and so their the likelihood discover his of to success.

23-1. Rouse him, and learn the principle of his activity or inactivity.
23-1. Rouse learn and his of principle or him, activity the inactivity.

23-2. Force him to reveal himself, so as to find out his vulnerable spots.
23-2. Force to as to him vulnerable find out himself, so his reveal spots.

24. Carefully compare the opposing army with your own, so that you may know where strength is superabundant and where it is deficient.
24. Carefully superabundant own, is is where may so and know that compare it opposing where with your you strength the army deficient.

25. In making tactical dispositions, the highest pitch you can attain is to conceal them; conceal your dispositions, and you will be safe from the prying of the subtlest spies, from the machinations of the wisest brains.
25. In tactical attain pitch will is highest conceal safe you to from the the dispositions, the of wisest them; can subtlest dispositions, you prying from of your conceal machinations spies, making be the the and brains.

26. How victory may be produced for them out of the enemy's own tactics-- that is what the multitude cannot comprehend.
26. How cannot own produced out of that tactics-- for the what may the enemy's multitude victory be is them comprehend.

27. All men can see the tactics whereby I conquer, but what none can see is the strategy out of which victory is evolved.
27. All men tactics but whereby can I see conquer, see can none strategy the victory the which out is what is of evolved.
28. Do not repeat the tactics which have gained you one victory, but let your methods be regulated by the infinite variety of circumstances.
28. Do not which one have repeat gained your you the let but regulated tactics variety be infinite by of victory, methods the circumstances.

29. Military tactics are like unto water; for water in its natural course runs away from high places and hastens downwards.
29. Military hastens course unto water in away runs water; places high are its natural and tactics like from for downwards.

30. So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong and to strike at what is weak.
30. So way what what is to in is and strong is to strike at war, avoid the weak.

31. Water shapes its course according to the nature of the ground over which it flows; the soldier works out his victory in relation to the foe whom he is facing.
31. Water of to which he soldier foe victory the the to is works flows; the relation his ground nature whom in out shapes the its over course it according facing.

32. Therefore, just as water retains no constant shape, so in warfare there are no constant conditions.
32. Therefore, so in are no warfare there constant just as water retains no constant shape, conditions.

33. He who can modify his tactics in relation to his opponent and thereby succeed in winning, may be called a heaven-born captain.
33. He may relation heaven-born winning, called and to be thereby his who a modify succeed tactics in opponent in can his captain.

34-1. The five elements (water, fire, wood, metal, earth) are not always equally predominant; the four seasons make way for each other in turn.
34-1. The five wood, not metal, elements earth) the are (water, predominant; equally make fire, other seasons each way in always four for turn.

34-2. There are short days and long; the moon has its periods of waning and waxing.
34-2. There days are and has long; short its the and waning periods moon of waxing.
