Lv2-swap
XI. THE NINE SITUATIONS
XI. THE NINE SITUATIONS

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war recognizes nine varieties of ground: (1) Dispersive ground; (2) facile ground; (3) contentious ground; (4) open ground; (5) ground of intersecting highways; (6) serious ground; (7) difficult ground; (8) hemmed-in ground; (9) desperate ground.
1. Sun The ground; art (5) of of varieties of Dispersive facile ground; highways; (4) nine ground serious (6) (3) difficult (7) ground; (1) (9) ground; recognizes ground; (2) Tzu ground; war ground; said: desperate open ground: contentious intersecting (8) hemmed-in ground.

2. When a chieftain is fighting in his own territory, it is dispersive ground.
2. When chieftain his own a dispersive territory, it fighting in is is ground.

3. When he has penetrated into hostile territory, but to no great distance, it is facile ground.
3. When to no it is great distance, facile he has penetrated into hostile territory, but ground.

4. Ground the possession of which imports great advantage to either side, is contentious ground.
4. Ground contentious imports which either to of the is great advantage possession side, ground.

5. Ground on which each side has liberty of movement is open ground.
5. Ground liberty is open of movement on which each side has ground.

6. Ground which forms the key to three contiguous states, so that he who occupies it first has most of the Empire at his command, is a ground of intersecting highways.
6. Ground states, command, who of has a Empire first is to intersecting most it three his the that contiguous ground at of which so forms he the occupies key highways.

7. When an army has penetrated into the heart of a hostile country, leaving a number of fortified cities in its rear, it is serious ground.
7. When army heart penetrated of an a into hostile has country, the leaving number fortified in rear, is a cities it of serious its ground.

8. Mountain forests, rugged steeps, marshes and fens-- all country that is hard to traverse: this is difficult ground.
8. Mountain marshes is country that to forests, difficult hard is and fens-- traverse: this rugged all steeps, ground.

9. Ground which is reached through narrow gorges, and from which we can only retire by tortuous paths, so that a small number of the enemy would suffice to crush a large body of our men: this is hemmed in ground.
9. Ground is retire in the gorges, which we would by tortuous that to of and suffice a large so men: body is can through our only a small this crush narrow which hemmed from number enemy of reached paths, ground.

10. Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.
10. Ground on only saved can which be destruction is we by fighting delay, desperate from without ground.

11-1. On dispersive ground, therefore, fight not.
11-1. On fight therefore, dispersive ground, not.

11-2. On facile ground, halt not.
11-2. On facile ground, halt not.

11-3. On contentious ground, attack not.
11-3. On contentious ground, attack not.

12-1. On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way.
12-1. On do ground, block to try enemy's open the not way.

12-2. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.
12-2. On of ground hands join highways, your the with intersecting allies.

13-1. On serious ground, gather in plunder.
13-1. On in gather serious ground, plunder.

13-2. In difficult ground, keep steadily on the march.
13-2. In the on steadily keep ground, difficult march.

14-1. On hemmed-in ground, resort to stratagem.
14-1. On to resort hemmed-in ground, stratagem.

14-2. On desperate ground, fight.
14-2. On ground, desperate fight.

15. Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men.
15. Those the front from small the wedge their to to rear; between the and drive co-operation troops and prevent hinder rescuing from the were bad, skillful between of officers knew how enemy's rallying his large good who called leaders old a to divisions; men.

16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder.
16. When enemy's they managed the in to keep were united, them men disorder.

17. When it was to their advantage, they made a forward move; when otherwise, they stopped still.
17. When a forward otherwise, they move; when stopped it was to their advantage, they made still.

18. If asked how to cope with a great host of the enemy in orderly array and on the point of marching to the attack, I should say: "Begin by seizing something which your opponent holds dear; then he will be amenable to your will."
18. If then the amenable "Begin will orderly your seizing the of array which point enemy the opponent say: to something dear; holds and how he cope attack, a be host of on to I should your asked to with great in marching by will."

19. Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots.
19. Rapidity unexpected advantage unguarded by and unreadiness, of routes, make the is attack essence your war: take enemy's way the of spots.

20. The following are the principles to be observed by an invading force: The further you penetrate into a country, the greater will be the solidarity of your troops, and thus the defenders will not prevail against you.
20. The following invading to greater an be further be a The will solidarity of principles thus your not you the and force: by the the troops, into against will penetrate are defenders prevail the country, observed you.

21. Make forays in fertile country in order to supply your army with food.
21. Make in order to forays with supply your country in army fertile food.

22-1. Carefully study the well-being of your men, and do not overtax them.
22-1. Carefully men, not overtax and do study the well-being of your them.

22-2. Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength.
22-2. Concentrate your hoard your energy and strength.

22-3. Keep your army continually on the move, and devise unfathomable plans.
22-3. Keep continually army and move, the unfathomable your devise on plans.

23-1. Throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape, and they will prefer death to flight.
23-1. Throw your whence is positions soldiers there escape, death into and they prefer to no will flight.

23-2. If they will face death, there is nothing they may not achieve.
23-2. If is may not nothing they they will face death, there achieve.

23-3. Officers and men alike will put forth their uttermost strength.
23-3. Officers will their uttermost put forth men alike and strength.

24-1. Soldiers when in desperate straits lose the sense of fear.
24-1. Soldiers straits sense of lose the in desperate when fear.

24-2. If there is no place of refuge, they will stand firm.
24-2. If no is they refuge, of stand there will place firm.

24-3. If they are in hostile country, they will show a stubborn front.
24-3. If they a stubborn will show they are in hostile country, front.

24-4. If there is no help for it, they will fight hard.
24-4. If no is they it, for fight there will help hard.

25. Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the qui vive; without waiting to be asked, they will do your will; without restrictions, they will be faithful; without giving orders, they can be trusted.
25. Thus, be on be will will soldiers the your waiting qui they without will; marshaled, will they giving without without be the be vive; without do to faithful; orders, waiting to be can they asked, restrictions, constantly trusted.

26-1. Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts.
26-1. Prohibit of taking away do and superstitious the with omens, doubts.

26-2. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.
26-2. Then, comes, need be no calamity death itself until feared.

27. If our soldiers are not overburdened with money, it is not because they have a distaste for riches; if their lives are not unduly long, it is not because they are disinclined to longevity.
27. If not disinclined it riches; they are for their lives is long, are because our to unduly not because if it is overburdened with not not have a they are soldiers distaste money, longevity.

28-1. On the day they are ordered out to battle, your soldiers may weep, those sitting up bedewing their garments, and those lying down letting the tears run down their cheeks.
28-1. On battle, letting weep, down bedewing tears those up the ordered their their sitting out down and soldiers to run lying garments, the your day may they those are cheeks.

28-2. But let them once be brought to bay, and they will display the courage of a Chu or a Kuei.
28-2. But a display be bay, and courage the brought Chu a them they will or let once of to Kuei.

29-1. The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan.
29-1. The skillful tactician likened to may be the shuai-jan.

29-2. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the ChUng mountains.
29-2. Now shuai-jan that is the ChUng found in a snake the is mountains.

29-3. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both.
29-3. Strike tail tail; and by attacked be strike head; and at attacked at strike you and middle, attacked tail, at you will by its be its you will by its head, will and head be its its both.

30-1. Asked if an army can be made to imitate the shuai-jan, I should answer, Yes.
30-1. Asked army if can imitate be an the made answer, should shuai-jan, to I Yes.

30-2. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; yet if they are crossing a river in the same boat and are caught by a storm, they will come to each other's assistance just as the left hand helps the right.
30-2. For just a hand a the if the they are in they come river enemies; boat each by same will assistance other's are men as Wu and the left of Yueh crossing helps are caught to the of and men yet the storm, right.

31. Hence it is not enough to put one's trust in the tethering of horses, and the burying of chariot wheels in the ground.
31. Hence it to in put is one's horses, trust not of tethering burying enough in the wheels of the the and chariot ground.

32. The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.
32. The must up to army is standard one manage which courage on to set all principle which of an reach.

33. How to make the best of both strong and weak-- that is a question involving the proper use of ground.
33. How of is best strong and question a of proper the make weak-- that use to the involving both ground.

34. Thus the skillful general conducts his army just as though he were leading a single man, willy-nilly, by the hand.
34. Thus the were conducts just as a leading his willy-nilly, man, skillful though he by the general single army hand.

35. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus ensure secrecy; upright and just, and thus maintain order.
35. It a business secrecy; of quiet be and ensure to just, is and thus general the upright thus maintain and order.

36. He must be able to mystify his officers and men by false reports and appearances, and thus keep them in total ignorance.
36. He thus officers total and them false and keep reports men must in able and mystify his by appearances, be to ignorance.

37-1. By altering his arrangements and changing his plans, he keeps the enemy without definite knowledge.
37-1. By arrangements altering and he changing his keeps his definite without the plans, enemy knowledge.

37-2. By shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, he prevents the enemy from anticipating his purpose.
37-2. By he prevents from anticipating the enemy his shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, purpose.

38-1. At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him.
38-1. At who height a away kicks up behind ladder and then climbed has the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one the him.

38-2. He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand.
38-2. He his hostile territory carries his before he deep into shows men hand.

39. He burns his boats and breaks his cooking-pots; like a shepherd driving a flock of sheep, he drives his men this way and that, and nothing knows whither he is going.
39. He boats and shepherd of a breaks men he that, his whither his a burns drives this nothing like flock and is his way and knows he cooking-pots; driving sheep, going.

40. To muster his host and bring it into danger:-- this may be termed the business of the general.
40. To and of danger:-- this termed muster the be may bring it the business his into host general.

41. The different measures suited to the nine varieties of ground; the expediency of aggressive or defensive tactics; and the fundamental laws of human nature: these are things that must most certainly be studied.
41. The different nine or tactics; aggressive measures and the of of are laws most suited varieties human defensive the nature: these be to fundamental things expediency of that must certainly the ground; studied.

42. When invading hostile territory, the general principle is, that penetrating deeply brings cohesion; penetrating but a short way means dispersion.
42. When means brings the is, that penetrating cohesion; general short a hostile penetrating deeply way invading territory, but principle dispersion.

43-1. When you leave your own country behind, and take your army across neighborhood territory, you find yourself on critical ground.
43-1. When critical across own and take territory, neighborhood country yourself find leave your army on you your you behind, ground.

43-2. When there are means of communication on all four sides, the ground is one of intersecting highways.
43-2. When there communication all of are on sides, of means the ground one intersecting four is highways.

44-1. When you penetrate deeply into a country, it is serious ground.
44-1. When deeply penetrate it country, a serious you is into ground.

44-2. When you penetrate but a little way, it is facile ground.
44-2. When but penetrate it way, little facile you is a ground.

45-1. When you have the enemy's strongholds on your rear, and narrow passes in front, it is hemmed-in ground.
45-1. When enemy's is rear, and in you hemmed-in passes narrow strongholds on front, it have your the ground.

45-2. When there is no place of refuge at all, it is desperate ground.
45-2. When is refuge at there desperate all, it place of is no ground.

46-1. Therefore, on dispersive ground, I would inspire my men with unity of purpose.
46-1. Therefore, dispersive inspire my on of men with I would unity ground, purpose.

46-2. On facile ground, I would see that there is close connection between all parts of my army.
46-2. On facile see there would ground, that close of I connection between parts my is all army.

47. On contentious ground, I would hurry up my rear.
47. On contentious ground, hurry up I would my rear.

48-1. On open ground, I would keep a vigilant eye on my defenses.
48-1. On a on my vigilant eye open ground, I would keep defenses.

48-2. On ground of intersecting highways, I would consolidate my alliances.
48-2. On highways, consolidate my I would of intersecting ground alliances.

49-1. On serious ground, I would try to ensure a continuous stream of supplies.
49-1. On ground, to ensure serious of a continuous would try stream I supplies.

49-2. On difficult ground, I would keep pushing on along the road.
49-2. On I ground, on pushing keep the difficult along would road.

50-1. On hemmed-in ground, I would block any way of retreat.
50-1. On would way of block any ground, I hemmed-in retreat.

50-2. On desperate ground, I would proclaim to my soldiers the hopelessness of saving their lives.
50-2. On I desperate would soldiers proclaim ground, the to their saving hopelessness my of lives.

51. For it is the soldier's disposition to offer an obstinate resistance when surrounded, to fight hard when he cannot help himself, and to obey promptly when he has fallen into danger.
51. For the soldier's resistance fight surrounded, disposition help when obey to has cannot obstinate it he himself, when an to to into is and promptly he fallen offer when hard danger.

52-1. We cannot enter into alliance with neighboring princes until we are acquainted with their designs.
52-1. We into cannot alliance until with enter we neighboring their with are princes acquainted designs.

52-2. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country-- its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps.
52-2. We are an familiar the are not face of its on its country-- its fit army mountains with march and forests, and to the pitfalls unless we and precipices, marshes lead the swamps.

52-3. We shall be unable to turn natural advantages to account unless we make use of local guides.
52-3. We shall turn advantages to be natural account of unable unless we use local to make guides.

53. To be ignored of any one of the following four or five principles does not befit a warlike prince.
53. To four any one following five principles of a does of the not befit or be ignored warlike prince.

54-1. When a warlike prince attacks a powerful state, his generalship shows itself in preventing the concentration of the enemy's forces.
54-1. When enemy's itself attacks state, his preventing in a of concentration warlike generalship shows the a prince the powerful forces.

54-2. He overawes his opponents, and their allies are prevented from joining against him.
54-2. He his allies are overawes against prevented from and their joining opponents, him.

55-1. Hence he does not strive to ally himself with all and sundry, nor does he foster the power of other states.
55-1. Hence to not does strive all with foster nor himself the he power sundry, ally does he of other and states.

55-2. He carries out his own secret designs, keeping his antagonists in awe.
55-2. He designs, antagonists in keeping his carries out his own secret awe.

55-3. Thus he is able to capture their cities and overthrow their kingdoms.
55-3. Thus their overthrow their cities and he is able to capture kingdoms.

56. Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue orders without regard to previous arrangements; and you will be able to handle a whole army as though you had to do with but a single man.
56. Bestow to a without able arrangements; regard be handle a regard though whole do rewards single as to previous to you had rule, issue to army and you with but without will orders man.

57-1. Confront your soldiers with the deed itself; never let them know your design.
57-1. Confront soldiers itself; never your your let them the deed know with design.

57-2. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.
57-2. When eyes; bright, bring their tell them is situation nothing it before when the but the outlook is gloomy.

58. Place your army in deadly peril, and it will survive; plunge it into desperate straits, and it will come off in safety.
58. Place it it in and come it will will into survive; your off in desperate peril, and plunge straits, army deadly safety.

59. For it is precisely when a force has fallen into harm's way that is capable of striking a blow for victory.
59. For a precisely is when into fallen of that has striking it a way force is capable blow for harm's victory.

60. Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.
60. Success warfare carefully accommodating in enemy's ourselves to gained by the is purpose.

61. By persistently hanging on the enemy's flank, we shall succeed in the long run in killing the commander-in-chief.
61. By the killing shall succeed long persistently the the in enemy's flank, run in hanging we on commander-in-chief.

62. This is called ability to accomplish a thing by sheer cunning.
62. This ability called thing a accomplish sheer is by to cunning.

63. On the day that you take up your command, block the frontier passes, destroy the official tallies, and stop the passage of all emissaries.
63. On the and stop frontier all the passage official tallies, of passes, destroy day that you take up your command, block the the emissaries.

64. Be stern in the council-chamber, so that you may control the situation.
64. Be that control the you may stern in the council-chamber, so situation.

65. If the enemy leaves a door open, you must rush in.
65. If leaves enemy you open, door rush the must a in.

66. Forestall your opponent by seizing what he holds dear, and subtly contrive to time his arrival on the ground.
66. Forestall and seizing what dear, contrive to by on time he holds his arrival subtly your opponent the ground.

67. Walk in the path defined by rule, and accommodate yourself to the enemy until you can fight a decisive battle.
67. Walk decisive the defined and accommodate until enemy by fight can the yourself to a in path you rule, battle.

68. At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden, until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you.
68. At then, until of rapidity the coyness an a the enemy running hare, will exhibit for it oppose you maiden, be afterwards a and late enemy opening; gives the too first, of to the emulate you.
