Lv2-swap
IX.  THE ARMY ON THE MARCH
IX. THE ARMY ON THE MARCH

1-1. Sun Tzu said: We come now to the question of encamping the army, and observing signs of the enemy.
1-1. Sun of come now question the army, We of and to the observing signs encamping Tzu said: the enemy.

1-2. Pass quickly over mountains, and keep in the neighborhood of valleys.
1-2. Pass mountains, over the in keep of quickly neighborhood and valleys.

2-1. Camp in high places, facing the sun.
2-1. Camp in facing the high places, sun.

2-2. Do not climb heights in order to fight.
2-2. Do to order in heights climb not fight.

2-3. So much for mountain warfare.
2-3. So much for mountain warfare.

3. After crossing a river, you should get far away from it.
3. After river, a far get should from crossing away you it.

4-1. When an invading force crosses a river in its onward march, do not advance to meet it in mid-stream.
4-1. When onward crosses a its do not force it advance river in to meet march, an invading in mid-stream.

4-2. It will be best to let half the army get across, and then deliver your attack.
4-2. It army get then deliver across, and your will be best to let half the attack.

5. If you are anxious to fight, you should not go to meet the invader near a river which he has to cross.
5. If river should to a he meet not which the go you has anxious invader fight, you to near are to cross.

6-1. Moor your craft higher up than the enemy, and facing the sun.
6-1. Moor the facing the enemy, and your craft higher up than sun.

6-2. Do not move up-stream to meet the enemy.
6-2. Do the meet to up-stream move not enemy.

6-3. So much for river warfare.
6-3. So much for river warfare.

7. In crossing salt-marshes, your sole concern should be to get over them quickly, without any delay.
7. In to get quickly, without over them any crossing salt-marshes, your sole concern should be delay.

8-1. If forced to fight in a salt-marsh, you should have water and grass near you, and get your back to a clump of trees.
8-1. If you, your back and of to a and get clump grass near to fight in a salt-marsh, you should have water forced trees.

8-2. So much for operations in salt-marches.
8-2. So in operations much for salt-marches.

9-1. In dry, level country, take up an easily accessible position with rising ground to your right and on your rear, so that the danger may be in front, and safety lie behind.
9-1. In an safety with front, your dry, your on the easily in rear, lie level ground that so position and danger and country, accessible be may rising take to up right behind.

9-2. So much for campaigning in flat country.
9-2. So much in flat for campaigning country.

10. These are the four useful branches of military knowledge which enabled the Yellow Emperor to vanquish four several sovereigns.
10. These which useful branches knowledge the Yellow four four Emperor of military to vanquish enabled are the several sovereigns.

11. All armies prefer high ground to low and sunny places to dark.
11. All low places to and sunny armies prefer high ground to dark.

12. If you are careful of your men, and camp on hard ground, the army will be free from disease of every kind, and this will spell victory.
12. If men, on your hard and you of the camp are kind, will from careful spell free disease every and will ground, be of this army victory.

13-1. When you come to a hill or a bank, occupy the sunny side, with the slope on your right rear.
13-1. When right sunny a a bank, with side, hill on slope come occupy the your you to the or rear.

13-2. Thus you will at once act for the benefit of your soldiers and utilize the natural advantages of the ground.
13-2. Thus the soldiers once the benefit utilize and act advantages natural will of your of you at the for ground.

14. When, in consequence of heavy rains up-country, a river which you wish to ford is swollen and flecked with foam, you must wait until it subsides.
14. When, to flecked and must you swollen it until with foam, is ford wait consequence of heavy rains up-country, a river which you wish in subsides.

15. Country in which there are precipitous cliffs with torrents running between, deep natural hollows, confined places, tangled thickets, quagmires and crevasses, should be left with all possible speed and not approached.
15. Country there are between, confined natural precipitous and tangled left cliffs speed quagmires running in thickets, crevasses, all torrents hollows, be not which should with possible and with deep places, approached.

16. While we keep away from such places, we should get the enemy to approach them; while we face them, we should let the enemy have them on his rear.
16. While we keep we to should away the them; them from enemy we we such his them, enemy places, while should the have on get approach face let rear.

17. If in the neighborhood of your camp there should be any hilly country, ponds surrounded by aquatic grass, hollow basins filled with reeds, or woods with thick undergrowth, they must be carefully routed out and searched; for these are places where men in ambush or insidious spies are likely to be lurking.
17. If for with where searched; or with likely these are undergrowth, spies places in basins be men hollow must reeds, ambush thick or be insidious and carefully the are of grass, camp to should out any hilly country, ponds surrounded by aquatic filled woods they routed in neighborhood your there be lurking.

18. When the enemy is close at hand and remains quiet, he is relying on the natural strength of his position.
18. When his is close and remains on relying at strength natural enemy quiet, he of the is the hand position.

19. When he keeps aloof and tries to provoke a battle, he is anxious for the other side to advance.
19. When battle, and tries a is anxious aloof side for to provoke the other he he keeps to advance.

20. If his place of encampment is easy of access, he is tendering a bait.
20. If a is encampment he access, of his tendering easy of place is bait.

21-1. Movement amongst the trees of a forest shows that the enemy is advancing.
21-1. Movement the forest shows amongst is that the of a enemy trees advancing.

21-2. The appearance of a number of screens in the midst of thick grass means that the enemy wants to make us suspicious.
21-2. The enemy in us the to thick the wants grass midst appearance make a means of screens of that of number suspicious.

22-1. The rising of birds in their flight is the sign of an ambuscade.
22-1. The of flight is rising an the sign in their of birds ambuscade.

22-2. Startled beasts indicate that a sudden attack is coming.
22-2. Startled beasts indicate sudden attack that a is coming.

23-1. When there is dust rising in a high column, it is the sign of chariots advancing; when the dust is low, but spread over a wide area, it betokens the approach of infantry.
23-1. When there a chariots when of is the dust but column, wide low, the dust high spread advancing; is over a of rising is area, the sign it betokens approach in it infantry.

23-2. When it branches out in different directions, it shows that parties have been sent to collect firewood.
23-2. When it different it in branches directions, that to out parties have sent collect shows been firewood.

23-3. A few clouds of dust moving to and fro signify that the army is encamping.
23-3. A of few dust fro moving clouds signify to is army that and the encamping.

24-1. Humble words and increased preparations are signs that the enemy is about to advance.
24-1. Humble to are preparations enemy the increased words about signs that and is advance.

24-2. Violent language and driving forward as if to the attack are signs that he will retreat.
24-2. Violent the attack that he are signs will language and driving forward as if to retreat.

25. When the light chariots come out first and take up a position on the wings, it is a sign that the enemy is forming for battle.
25. When on a is enemy the it for forming sign that wings, the is light chariots come out first and take up a position the battle.

26. Peace proposals unaccompanied by a sworn covenant indicate a plot.
26. Peace a indicate a sworn covenant unaccompanied by proposals plot.

27. When there is much running about and the soldiers fall into rank, it means that the critical moment has come.
27. When has rank, running the soldiers means it about critical the is fall into moment there much that and come.

28. When some are seen advancing and some retreating, it is a lure.
28. When some is a retreating, it some are seen advancing and lure.

29. When the soldiers stand leaning on their spears, they are faint from want of food.
29. When stand the leaning they on soldiers are their of want faint spears, from food.

30. If those who are sent to draw water begin by drinking themselves, the army is suffering from thirst.
30. If sent suffering begin by the those from themselves, drinking to draw army is who water are thirst.

31. If the enemy sees an advantage to be gained and makes no effort to secure it, the soldiers are exhausted.
31. If are no an be gained to effort advantage the it, enemy and makes soldiers the sees secure to exhausted.

32-1. If birds gather on any spot, it is unoccupied.
32-1. If birds gather spot, it on any is unoccupied.

32-2. Clamor by night betokens nervousness.
32-2. Clamor by night betokens nervousness.

33-1. If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak.
33-1. If camp, authority is the general's there is disturbance in the weak.

33-2. If the banners and flags are shifted about, sedition is afoot.
33-2. If and banners about, shifted are is the sedition flags afoot.

33-3. If the officers are angry, it means that the men are weary.
33-3. If means men are that the the officers are angry, it weary.

34. When an army feeds its horses with grain and kills its cattle for food, and when the men do not hang their cooking-pots over the camp-fires, showing that they will not return to their tents, you may know that they are determined to fight to the death.
34. When with hang grain not and the kills to its cooking-pots cattle tents, when and not an over the that army return do you feeds they showing fight its that for may horses are they men their camp-fires, will their know determined the to to food, death.

35. The sight of men whispering together in small knots or speaking in subdued tones points to disaffection amongst the rank and file.
35. The disaffection small and to the in knots amongst subdued or sight rank men tones together in speaking points of whispering file.

36. Too frequent rewards signify that the enemy is at the end of his resources; too many punishments betray a condition of dire distress.
36. Too frequent the the enemy rewards is resources; at signify his of punishments that of many condition betray dire end too a distress.

37. To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.
37. To at but afterwards fright enemy's numbers, bluster, lack shows to take a supreme the begin by of intelligence.

38. When envoys are sent with compliments in their mouths, it is a sign that the enemy wishes for a truce.
38. When a a with their mouths, that sign compliments wishes enemy are it is for envoys sent the in truce.

39. If the enemy's troops march up angrily and remain facing ours for a long time without either joining battle or taking themselves off again, the situation is one that demands great vigilance and circumspection.
39. If march vigilance remain joining a troops either or taking facing the themselves that the and again, ours for battle situation is up angrily one off long time demands great enemy's without and circumspection.

40-1. If our troops are no more in number than the enemy, that is amply sufficient; it only means that no direct attack can be made.
40-1. If troops number no than our the more enemy, are that in is sufficient; only that direct can amply means attack it be no made.

40-2. What we can do is simply to concentrate all our available strength, keep a close watch on the enemy, and obtain reinforcements.
40-2. What on concentrate obtain watch enemy, strength, all the keep our we and do a simply to available close can is reinforcements.

41. He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them.
41. He forethought captured of his sure who by is opponents but makes to be exercises light no them.

42-1. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless.
42-1. If prove unless submissive, they practically then will submissive; and, be will not are punished before they have grown attached to you, soldiers useless.

42-2. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be useless.
42-2. If, have still you, punishments enforced, when be not are become attached they will the to soldiers useless.

43-1. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline.
43-1. Therefore iron but treated first instance under kept in means by must with humanity, of soldiers be control the discipline.

43-2. This is a certain road to victory.
43-2. This is road to a certain victory.

44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.
44. If be be commands enforced, the if well-disciplined; are discipline its training army will will in soldiers not, habitually bad.

45. If a general shows confidence in his men but always insists on his orders being obeyed, the gain will be mutual.
45. If in shows orders confidence always but obeyed, his men the a gain on his general being will be insists mutual.

