Lv2-swap
I. LAYING PLANS
I. LAYING PLANS

1. Sun Tzu said: The art of war is of vital importance to the State.
1. Sun the of art vital of The Tzu to war is said: importance State.

2-1. It is a matter of life and death, a road either to safety or to ruin.
2-1. It a road safety or either to to is a matter of life and death, ruin.

2-2. Hence it is a subject of inquiry which can on no account be neglected.
2-2. Hence be of subject on can a it account inquiry which is no neglected.

3. The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.
3. The by of art be five war, factors, into obtaining then, to in when is the deliberations, the governed account seeking determine conditions in constant taken one's to field.

4. These are: (1) The Moral Law; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Method and discipline.
4. These are: Law; Heaven; Moral (1) (2) Earth; Method The (4) The (5) and (3) Commander; discipline.

5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.
5,6. The accord lives, so of follow by their him any causes they that undismayed the regardless will their people to be in complete Moral with Law ruler, danger.

7. Heaven signifies night and day, cold and heat, times and seasons.
7. Heaven and night heat, and cold and signifies times day, seasons.

8. Earth comprises distances, great and small; danger and security; open ground and narrow passes; the chances of life and death.
8. Earth and and and and security; passes; narrow small; of chances distances, open ground life comprises great the danger death.

9. The Commander stands for the virtues of wisdom, sincerity, benevolence, courage and strictness.
9. The stands of wisdom, Commander and sincerity, benevolence, the virtues courage for strictness.

10. By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.
10. By discipline its are the to of marshaling of in subdivisions, the by among the maintenance supplies which graduations the reach control army of army, understood rank proper method officers, be may and military the the of roads and the expenditure.

11. These five heads should be familiar to every general: he who knows them will be victorious; he who knows them not will fail.
11. These five familiar he to heads every will general: should them knows he be not victorious; them who will who be knows fail.

12. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:--
12. Therefore, in seeking military to your determine be the deliberations, them let basis when in the comparison, of this conditions, made a wise:--

13-1. (1) Which of the two sovereigns is imbued with the Moral law?
13-1. (1) is the Moral imbued with Which of the two sovereigns law?

13-2. (2) Which of the two generals has most ability?
13-2. (2) Which of generals has the two most ability?

13-3. (3) With whom lie the advantages derived from Heaven and Earth?
13-3. (3) lie whom from derived advantages and With Heaven the Earth?

13-4. (4) On which side is discipline most rigorously enforced?
13-4. (4) On which discipline most side is rigorously enforced?

13-5. (5) Which army is stronger?
13-5. (5) Which army is stronger?

13-6. (6) On which side are officers and men more highly trained?
13-6. (6) side which men and officers highly On more are trained?

13-7. (7) In which army is there the greater constancy both in reward and punishment?
13-7. (7) and there is both constancy army In reward the greater which in punishment?

14. By means of these seven considerations I can forecast victory or defeat.
14. By I victory or can forecast means of these seven considerations defeat.

15-1. The general that hearkens to my counsel and acts upon it, will conquer: let such a one be retained in command!
15-1. The my hearkens let to upon acts a conquer: and one general be will counsel that such retained in it, command!

15-2. The general that hearkens not to my counsel nor acts upon it, will suffer defeat:-- let such a one be dismissed!
15-2. The to hearkens suffer not acts nor let will counsel such general a it, my that defeat:-- one be upon dismissed!

16. While heading the profit of my counsel, avail yourself also of any helpful circumstances over and beyond the ordinary rules.
16. While ordinary any of avail yourself circumstances helpful my beyond and the also of the heading profit over counsel, rules.

17. According as circumstances are favorable, one should modify one's plans.
17. According favorable, modify one's one should circumstances are as plans.

18. All warfare is based on deception.
18. All on based warfare is deception.

19. Hence, when able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must seem inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near.
19. Hence, make seem are enemy believe our unable; we forces, when inactive; far near, when the when are are far away, when we to must we we using him we seem believe we we make attack, must must must away; able near.

20-1. Hold out baits to entice the enemy.
20-1. Hold out entice the baits to enemy.

20-2. Feign disorder, and crush him.
20-2. Feign disorder, and crush him.

21-1. If he is secure at all points, be prepared for him.
21-1. If secure is be points, all for he prepared at him.

21-2. If he is in superior strength, evade him.
21-2. If evade strength, superior in is he him.

22-1. If your opponent is of choleric temper, seek to irritate him.
22-1. If is opponent seek temper, choleric irritate your to of him.

22-2. Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.
22-2. Pretend to be he may weak, that grow arrogant.

23-1. If he is taking his ease, give him no rest.
23-1. If his him no ease, give is taking he rest.

23-2. If his forces are united, separate them.
23-2. If his united, separate forces are them.

24. Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.
24. Attack appear are not where you him where he is unprepared, expected.

25. These military devices, leading to victory, must not be divulged beforehand.
25. These leading devices, not must victory, divulged military be to beforehand.

26-1. Now the general who wins a battle makes many calculations in his temple ere the battle is fought.
26-1. Now wins battle many calculations temple the is his in a battle ere the general makes who fought.

26-2. The general who loses a battle makes but few calculations beforehand.
26-2. The loses who but makes battle calculations general few a beforehand.

26-3. Thus do many calculations lead to victory, and few calculations to defeat: how much more no calculation at all!
26-3. Thus calculations lead to few defeat: how calculations calculation much victory, and more no to do many at all!

26-4. It is by attention to this point that I can foresee who is likely to win or lose.
26-4. It to win I can is is or who foresee this point likely to by that attention lose.
