Lv2-swap
XIII. THE USE OF SPIES
XIII. THE OF USE SPIES

1-1. Sun Tzu said: Raising a host of a hundred thousand men and marching them great distances entails heavy loss on the people and a drain on the resources of the State.
1-1. Sun Raising a men great marching host on entails a of resources loss thousand Tzu heavy the on hundred them and the said: people drain the of a and distances State.

1-2. The daily expenditure will amount to a thousand ounces of silver.
1-2. The will expenditure thousand a to of daily ounces amount silver.

1-3. There will be commotion at home and abroad, and men will drop down exhausted on the highways.
1-3. There will home abroad, at be and men on commotion will drop exhausted the and down highways.

1-4. As many as seven hundred thousand families will be impeded in their labor.
1-4. As as families will many their be impeded hundred thousand in seven labor.

2-1. Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day.
2-1. Hostile for each other striving victory which face a is for years, decided in the armies may single day.

2-2. This being so, to remain in ignorance of the enemy's condition simply because one grudges the outlay of a hundred ounces of silver in honors and emoluments, is the height of inhumanity.
2-2. This ignorance height condition is grudges being a of silver of emoluments, hundred of so, because of ounces enemy's the in outlay to the and honors simply remain one in the inhumanity.

3. One who acts thus is no leader of men, no present help to his sovereign, no master of victory.
3. One no is no men, help to thus master his leader of sovereign, no present who acts of victory.

4. Thus, what enables the wise sovereign and the good general to strike and conquer, and achieve things beyond the reach of ordinary men, is foreknowledge.
4. Thus, enables the wise good what general sovereign to the strike and and and things the of men, conquer, beyond ordinary achieve is reach foreknowledge.

5. Now this foreknowledge cannot be elicited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any deductive calculation.
5. Now deductive obtained be spirits; it from inductively elicited by nor foreknowledge cannot be any this cannot experience, from calculation.

6. Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can only be obtained from other men.
6. Knowledge only from other be obtained of the enemy's dispositions can men.

7. Hence the use of spies, of whom there are five classes: (1) Local spies; (2) inward spies; (3) converted spies; (4) doomed spies; (5) surviving spies.
7. Hence Local (3) spies; doomed (4) inward surviving (5) converted spies; (2) spies; spies; use of spies, of whom there are five classes: (1) the spies.

8-1. When these five kinds of spy are all at work, none can discover the secret system.
8-1. When at work, discover the none can secret these five kinds of spy are all system.

8-2. This is called "divine manipulation of the threads."
8-2. This the of manipulation "divine called is threads."

8-3. It is the sovereign's most precious faculty.
8-3. It is most precious the sovereign's faculty.

9. Having local spies means employing the services of the inhabitants of a district.
9. Having spies services of local a the inhabitants employing the of means district.

10. Having inward spies, making use of officials of the enemy.
10. Having use of the of officials spies, making inward enemy.

11. Having converted spies, getting hold of the enemy's spies and using them for our own purposes.
11. Having spies and for our using them own converted spies, getting hold of the enemy's purposes.

12. Having doomed spies, doing certain things openly for purposes of deception, and allowing our spies to know of them and report them to the enemy.
12. Having spies, for certain purposes doomed of things deception, doing and openly allowing spies know them report to our of them to the and enemy.

13. Surviving spies, finally, are those who bring back news from the enemy's camp.
13. Surviving finally, bring back spies, enemy's news from those who the are camp.

14-1. Hence it is that which none in the whole army are more intimate relations to be maintained than with spies.
14-1. Hence with more which the whole relations intimate none maintained be is army are than it that to in spies.

14-2. None should be more liberally rewarded.
14-2. None liberally more should be rewarded.

14-3. In no other business should greater secrecy be preserved.
14-3. In no other greater secrecy business should be preserved.

15. Spies cannot be usefully employed without a certain intuitive sagacity.
15. Spies employed certain intuitive without a be usefully cannot sagacity.

16. They cannot be properly managed without benevolence and straightforwardness.
16. They cannot be without benevolence properly managed and straightforwardness.

17. Without subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make certain of the truth of their reports.
17. Without of subtle mind, certain one ingenuity of cannot their of the make truth reports.

18. Be subtle! be subtle! and use your spies for every kind of business.
18. Be be your spies subtle! of for every and use kind subtle! business.

19. If a secret piece of news is divulged by a spy before the time is ripe, he must be put to death together with the man to whom the secret was told.
19. If is secret spy whom is a be must together divulged to put was secret the death to a the with he piece by man the before of time news ripe, told.

20-1. Whether the object be to crush an army, to storm a city, or to assassinate an individual, it is always necessary to begin by finding out the names of the attendants, the aides-de-camp, and door-keepers and sentries of the general in command.
20-1. Whether sentries an in out the city, to names or it individual, the necessary storm finding the of always aides-de-camp, and the to be and crush to a of is army, the general door-keepers by to an assassinate begin attendants, object command.

20-2. Our spies must be commissioned to ascertain these.
20-2. Our ascertain to commissioned be must spies these.

21-1. The enemy's spies who have come to spy on us must be sought out, tempted with bribes, led away and comfortably housed.
21-1. The bribes, spy comfortably with away be on led sought us enemy's and who out, come to must tempted spies have housed.

21-2. Thus they will become converted spies and available for our service.
21-2. Thus become will available and spies our they for converted service.

22. It is through the information brought by the converted spy that we are able to acquire and employ local and inward spies.
22. It and the inward acquire local we converted employ are spy is and the able brought by that to through information spies.

23. It is owing to his information, again, that we can cause the doomed spy to carry false tidings to the enemy.
23. It information, to spy his can we carry doomed that false is tidings the again, owing to to the cause enemy.

24. Lastly, it is by his information that the surviving spy can be used on appointed occasions.
24. Lastly, surviving spy used on can be appointed it is by his information that the occasions.

25-1. The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy.
25-1. The aim of varieties the knowledge spying can and in in from knowledge five end this only first its of derived, converted and be the instance, the all is enemy; spy.

25-2. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality.
25-2. Hence utmost the that treated be essential it the converted spy is with liberality.

26-1. Of old, the rise of the Yin dynasty was due to I Chih who had served under the Hsia.
26-1. Of due of the was I Chih rise under who Yin dynasty had served to old, the the Hsia.

26-2. Likewise, the rise of the Chou dynasty was due to Lu Ya who had served under the Yin.
26-2. Likewise, the under due to who the the Ya Lu Chou dynasty had served rise was of Yin.

27-1. Hence it is only the enlightened ruler and the wise general who will use the highest intelligence of the army for purposes of spying and thereby they achieve great results.
27-1. Hence the spying will achieve intelligence thereby for highest and enlightened great of the ruler of army general and they purposes the it wise is who only use the results.

27-2. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army's ability to move.
27-2. Spies are element water, important a in on ability most them depends army's to because an move.

