Lv1-space
III. ATTACK BY STRATAGEM
III. ATTACKBYSTRATAGEM

1-1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good.
1-1. SunTzusaid:Inthepracticalartofwar,thebestthingofallistotaketheenemy'scountrywholeandintact;toshatteranddestroyitisnotsogood.

1-2. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.
1-2. So,too,itisbettertorecaptureanarmyentirethantodestroyit,tocapturearegiment,adetachmentoracompanyentirethantodestroythem.

2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
2. Hencetofightandconquerinallyourbattlesisnotsupremeexcellence;supremeexcellenceconsistsinbreakingtheenemy'sresistancewithoutfighting.

3. Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities.
3. Thusthehighestformofgeneralshipistobalktheenemy'splans;thenextbestistopreventthejunctionoftheenemy'sforces;thenextinorderistoattacktheenemy'sarmyinthefield;andtheworstpolicyofallistobesiegewalledcities.

4-1. The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided.
4-1. Theruleis,nottobesiegewalledcitiesifitcanpossiblybeavoided.

4-2. The preparation of mantlets, movable shelters, and various implements of war, will take up three whole months; and the piling up of mounds over against the walls will take three months more.
4-2. Thepreparationofmantlets,movableshelters,andvariousimplementsofwar,willtakeupthreewholemonths;andthepilingupofmoundsoveragainstthewallswilltakethreemonthsmore.

5-1. The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken.
5-1. Thegeneral,unabletocontrolhisirritation,willlaunchhismentotheassaultlikeswarmingants,withtheresultthatone-thirdofhismenareslain,whilethetownstillremainsuntaken.

5-2. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege.
5-2. Sucharethedisastrouseffectsofasiege.

6. Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.
6. Thereforetheskillfulleadersubduestheenemy'stroopswithoutanyfighting;hecapturestheircitieswithoutlayingsiegetothem;heoverthrowstheirkingdomwithoutlengthyoperationsinthefield.

7-1. With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete.
7-1. WithhisforcesintacthewilldisputethemasteryoftheEmpire,andthus,withoutlosingaman,histriumphwillbecomplete.

7-2. This is the method of attacking by stratagem.
7-2. Thisisthemethodofattackingbystratagem.

8. It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two.
8. Itistheruleinwar,ifourforcesaretentotheenemy'sone,tosurroundhim;iffivetoone,toattackhim;iftwiceasnumerous,todivideourarmyintotwo.

9. If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him.
9. Ifequallymatched,wecanofferbattle;ifslightlyinferiorinnumbers,wecanavoidtheenemy;ifquiteunequalineveryway,wecanfleefromhim.

10. Hence, though an obstinate fight may be made by a small force, in the end it must be captured by the larger force.
10. Hence,thoughanobstinatefightmaybemadebyasmallforce,intheenditmustbecapturedbythelargerforce.

11. Now the general is the bulwark of the State; if the bulwark is complete at all points; the State will be strong; if the bulwark is defective, the State will be weak.
11. NowthegeneralisthebulwarkoftheState;ifthebulwarkiscompleteatallpoints;theStatewillbestrong;ifthebulwarkisdefective,theStatewillbeweak.

12. There are three ways in which a ruler can bring misfortune upon his army:--
12. Therearethreewaysinwhicharulercanbringmisfortuneuponhisarmy:--

13-1. (1) By commanding the army to advance or to retreat, being ignorant of the fact that it cannot obey.
13-1. (1)Bycommandingthearmytoadvanceortoretreat,beingignorantofthefactthatitcannotobey.

13-2. This is called hobbling the army.
13-2. Thisiscalledhobblingthearmy.

14-1. (2) By attempting to govern an army in the same way as he administers a kingdom, being ignorant of the conditions which obtain in an army.
14-1. (2)Byattemptingtogovernanarmyinthesamewayasheadministersakingdom,beingignorantoftheconditionswhichobtaininanarmy.

14-2. This causes restlessness in the soldier's minds.
14-2. Thiscausesrestlessnessinthesoldier'sminds.

15-1. (3) By employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances.
15-1. (3)Byemployingtheofficersofhisarmywithoutdiscrimination,throughignoranceofthemilitaryprincipleofadaptationtocircumstances.

15-2. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers.
15-2. Thisshakestheconfidenceofthesoldiers.

16-1. But when the army is restless and distrustful, trouble is sure to come from the other feudal princes.
16-1. Butwhenthearmyisrestlessanddistrustful,troubleissuretocomefromtheotherfeudalprinces.

16-2. This is simply bringing anarchy into the army, and flinging victory away.
16-2. Thisissimplybringinganarchyintothearmy,andflingingvictoryaway.

17-1. Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
17-1. Thuswemayknowthattherearefiveessentialsforvictory:(1)Hewillwinwhoknowswhentofightandwhennottofight.

17-2. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
17-2. (2)Hewillwinwhoknowshowtohandlebothsuperiorandinferiorforces.

17-3. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks.
17-3. (3)Hewillwinwhosearmyisanimatedbythesamespiritthroughoutallitsranks.

17-4. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.
17-4. (4)Hewillwinwho,preparedhimself,waitstotaketheenemyunprepared.

17-5. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.
17-5. (5)Hewillwinwhohasmilitarycapacityandisnotinterferedwithbythesovereign.

18-1. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
18-1. Hencethesaying:Ifyouknowtheenemyandknowyourself,youneednotfeartheresultofahundredbattles.

18-2. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat.
18-2. Ifyouknowyourselfbutnottheenemy,foreveryvictorygainedyouwillalsosufferadefeat.

18-3. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.
18-3. Ifyouknowneithertheenemynoryourself,youwillsuccumbineverybattle.
