Lv4-swap
V.ENERGY


1.of their is dividing as Sun a of is a of few numbers. Tzu same it men: force up merely control said: large question a the The principle control the


2.your with Fighting from command a nowise with signs large different small is army signals. it of under a merely question instituting and is fighting one: a


3.host the whole brunt may To your the withstand ensure by attack unshaken-- that indirect. remain this effected maneuvers and of and is direct enemy's


4.a weak an science effected and of by strong. impact this egg-- points of the is dashed your army may be like That grindstone the against


5.all may the be In used direct for fighting, joining method battle, indirect will needed order secure but be to methods victory. in


6.away of more. end return unending Heaven to as and rivers anew; the and they the begin like four seasons, Indirect the efficiently pass are sun Earth, to streams; as but once they moon, applied, inexhaustible flow and like tactics,


7.of to rise can than give heard. be more melodies five these ever are not more than five musical notes, yet the combinations There


8.yellow, can black), hues they been than produce seen. not in yet ever more more combination white, than five primary colors (blue, There red, are and


9.five (sour, than acrid, cardinal There more sweet, tastes are than yet them not tasted. of yield flavors can be salt, combinations more ever bitter),


10.there are of and the not two indirect; rise more series these methods In yet in an two direct give maneuvers. battle, combination to endless of than attack-- the


11-1.turn. indirect the each to and The in lead on direct other


11-2.like It moving you in is never a end. an come circle-- to


11-3.the their combination? possibilities of can exhaust Who


12.stones the course. roll in torrent rush along which of The its of will is like a even onset troops


13.The is swoop like quality the which well-timed of falcon a to decision its it destroy strike victim. of enables and


14.Therefore will terrible fighter the be his his good onset, and in decision. in prompt


15.a likened to of decision, to be a the the bending releasing of crossbow; Energy may trigger.


16.proof and defeat. chaos, of may be array yet no at be and battle, may head or disorder will tail, the seeming and it disorder all; amid be without tumult Amid against there confusion your yet turmoil real


17.postulates Simulated perfect postulates discipline, disorder courage; simulated strength. postulates simulated fear weakness


18.order of beneath a disorder is question of courage concealing of energy; fund of masking strength is under by weakness tactical a simply to a show latent effected be the cloak Hiding presupposes timidity dispositions. subdivision; with


19-1.deceitful to which the act. the enemy appearances, according will move maintains one who is skillful at keeping the enemy on Thus


19-2.enemy at it. may snatch He sacrifices something, that the


20.holding him baits, on By the he march; out then keeps with body picked he in for a men wait of him. lies


21-1.individuals. and looks effect of not does to much too clever combined energy, from The combatant require the


21-2.ability Hence to right pick his men out energy. combined and the utilize


22-1.stones. it combined fighting men like were energy, logs rolling he become as or When utilizes unto his


22-2.it remain is a a log to if level on move to slope; of come to but ground, go standstill, rolling stone or if and to four-cornered, to round-shaped, the nature For on when down. motionless a


23-1.good is by as fighting Thus developed momentum men the thousands a rolled energy height. stone down mountain of in the round a feet of


23-2.So much subject of on the energy.
