Lv4-swap
X.TERRAIN


1.enemy. to We ground; kinds six wit: narrow (2) (1) temporizing (5) passes; may (6) heights; great ground; Sun positions distinguish of Accessible a (4) entangling at distance Tzu said: ground; the from (3) precipitous terrain,


2.accessible. freely be sides both can Ground called traversed by which is


3-1.this before of the nature, With ground in be regard guard the sunny to supplies. and spots, carefully your of enemy raised and line occupying


3-2.will you fight to able advantage. Then with be


4.can Ground be hard abandoned which to but entangling. called re-occupy is is


5-1.him. unprepared, of if the may you this and forth a enemy is defeat From position sally sort,


5-2.defeat return being you ensue. impossible, disaster him, then, will fail to if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and But


6.it neither ground. move, called by side is making will When temporizing position the such that gain first the is


7.the rather enemy In should to offer a us retreat, an position attractive advisable bait, of it enticing not this but forth, thus sort, in enemy when even army will we though attack his part has may with his our out, then, be stir to the turn; of come deliver advantage.


8.regard you narrow can With occupy passes, them to first, if let be garrisoned await advent the them and of strongly enemy. the


9.occupying the Should go a army do him is forestall not the fully you garrisoned. is if in if garrisoned, only it weakly pass, after pass but


10.are wait adversary, come the him spots, occupy for heights, up. raised should if there sunny with you to and and With beforehand regard your to you precipitous


11.try before away. and entice follow you, to him, do If him enemy but occupied them not retreat the has


12.If the at equal, from a the is two and it easy to situated and provoke to strength are battle, enemy, distance is fighting a the disadvantage. be of you will your not armies great


13-1.the with Earth. principles connected six are These


13-2.post must to study be careful them. The general who has attained a responsible


14-1.an six is several Now calamities, exposed not army arising to from causes, from for the is natural faults general but responsible. which


14-2.collapse; (4) disorganization; (6) ruin; (5) rout. These are: (1) Flight; (2) insubordination; (3)


15.ten result the flight the size, former. the will be its times of conditions being equal, if one force is hurled against another Other


16-1.soldiers is and their weak, When insubordination. too officers are too the result the strong common


16-2.are is the common weak, When collapse. too soldiers too strong the result the and officers


17.are own angry can and give insubordinate, whether and from enemy not their the a is before feeling tell When he on position the result resentment, to higher the on meeting officers account the commander-in-chief or in fight, ruin. is a battle of


18.haphazard when is men, the not disorganization. the his are clear are there orders duties in and fixes ranks slovenly a and the manner, is assigned and result authority; when distinct; utter to officers formed When general weak without are no and


19.front larger must one, the force rout. neglects allows or to place one, an weak soldiers powerful a to the in engage a rank, unable detachment estimate result enemy's strength, a be against a picked When general, to the inferior hurls and


20.These of must courting are defeat, by which six noted carefully who ways responsible general a has post. be the attained


21.formation power of victory, the best soldier's of a estimating the calculating the the and dangers difficulties, adversary, constitutes distances, a but great the is controlling of The of country and natural general. forces ally; of shrewdly test of


22-1.puts these things, fighting knowledge into knows his practice, and in will win his He who battles.


22-2.defeated. not, them will them, knows He be nor practices who surely


23.If you to fighting then result even not forbid fight, will in victory, sure not then the though is must must victory, if fight you ruler bidding. at the fighting even ruler's result it; in


24.is and fame protect fearing advances thought country his without good do sovereign, general of service without disgrace, whose his and coveting the is retreats only for jewel to The kingdom. the who


25.as unto they upon into soldiers look as your will and own by Regard death. sons, follow you them they will your children, stand beloved the deepest you even your valleys; and


26.are to indulgent, then but felt; unable soldiers authority your unable be commands; your of to your and likened children; they but any If, for moreover, practical however, kind-hearted, to incapable, you must quelling useless purpose. are make enforce disorder: spoilt


27.If own but unaware attack, we that the not are we is halfway know men open are a to attack, victory. that enemy have condition to gone only towards our in


28.If enemy that own unaware we men are a open we in halfway know is condition our attack, to attack, victory. that not have but are gone only towards the to


29.have are halfway the gone know victory. of attack, a that ground in and attack, fighting that to the we impracticable, our we still that but enemy only open to men towards are unaware makes If know the is also condition nature


30.Hence once never in the motion, has is experienced he once he soldier, a camp, at is loss. bewildered; broken never


31.Hence know will stand victory the in doubt; know enemy Earth, you your saying: the Heaven not know and know complete. If if you yourself, your may make victory you and


