Lv4-swap
I.PLANS LAYING


1.importance is art war of State. Tzu the of said: The vital to Sun


2-1.or a death, road and to of matter safety It life is ruin. a to either


2-2.can Hence it neglected. of on no a is subject be inquiry account which


3.governed factors, to seeking obtaining account then, conditions the of when taken The the art by field. war, is in five constant in to be one's determine into deliberations,


4.and Moral (5) Method (1) (2) Heaven; Earth; Commander; The (3) Law; are: (4) discipline. The These


5,6.ruler, him they any danger. people with undismayed the Law causes in lives, The accord so Moral that of follow will their by their complete regardless be to


7.cold times signifies day, heat, night seasons. Heaven and and and


8.comprises security; danger passes; of ground Earth and death. and open small; distances, life narrow chances and great and the


9.virtues of courage wisdom, stands sincerity, Commander for The benevolence, strictness. the and


10.which roads method proper understood marshaling the of reach the among the army of the of By of the in officers, maintenance be control to graduations may are the by the and expenditure. rank discipline military supplies army, and its subdivisions,


11.to should will them fail. he victorious; be heads who These knows five will general: every he knows not familiar who them be


12.Therefore, let this a seeking them military comparison, to determine conditions, made deliberations, your in the basis be the in of when wise:--


13-1.(1) imbued the Moral the two law? is Which with sovereigns of


13-2.the has generals two of Which (2) ability? most


13-3.advantages the lie Heaven With and Earth? derived (3) from whom


13-4.rigorously On (4) is discipline most side which enforced?


13-5.army is (5) stronger? Which


13-6.(6) and On side are men trained? officers more which highly


13-7.is and In in both there punishment? constancy reward which (7) army greater the


14.victory or considerations means these forecast I can of By defeat. seven


15-1.it, and hearkens one counsel be general that upon in retained such will command! let conquer: to The a acts my


15-2.will acts suffer one let nor to a upon it, my such hearkens defeat:-- The that counsel be dismissed! general not


16.of the any beyond helpful ordinary my counsel, yourself also of rules. heading avail and profit over circumstances the While


17.plans. favorable, one modify are circumstances one's should as According


18.is deception. based on All warfare


19.able him when unable; must our are must must are we we seem make when make inactive; when must we we enemy away; seem far we away, using near. forces, we the far near, we when to attack, believe are Hence, believe


20-1.Hold entice to the out enemy. baits


20-2.disorder, Feign him. crush and


21-1.points, If him. all prepared be is at for secure he


21-2.If him. evade superior he is in strength,


22-1.him. seek choleric irritate to opponent temper, is If your of


22-2.to may Pretend arrogant. grow be weak, that he


23-1.him taking no his ease, rest. is If he give


23-2.them. forces If his are united, separate


24.not are appear is expected. Attack where he unprepared, where you him


25.military must beforehand. These not victory, divulged be devices, leading to


26-1.wins general many makes who a fought. the the calculations temple Now is ere his in battle battle


26-2.loses calculations a who few beforehand. The general battle but makes


26-3.to at how all! to few defeat: lead more calculation no Thus calculations calculations many much victory, do and


26-4.win by to lose. foresee can attention to this or is It who likely I that is point
