Lv4-swap
XIII.USE OF SPIES THE


1-1.people the resources heavy of thousand a Sun them a of men on host distances marching hundred drain Tzu the the Raising entails a State. said: and great on loss and


1-2.The ounces daily amount expenditure thousand of silver. a to will


1-3.will highways. There down and men exhausted on abroad, at will be and home drop the commotion


1-4.hundred will be labor. seven as As their in families thousand impeded many


2-1.which victory each other may single is the armies for for decided in a Hostile day. years, face striving


2-2.outlay condition and enemy's a in because remain grudges silver inhumanity. of simply the the is ounces being one so, in of of of honors This to ignorance the hundred height emoluments,


3.present leader acts help of sovereign, of master thus One to no who no victory. is his no men,


4.what and reach men, of and the Thus, beyond general achieve things to enables and foreknowledge. strike conquer, good the the is sovereign wise ordinary


5.deductive calculation. obtained this any elicited experience, from nor cannot be it cannot spirits; foreknowledge inductively from be by Now


6.from obtained can the men. other be enemy's Knowledge dispositions only of


7.there spies; five surviving (5) spies; the (3) inward use of whom converted (4) spies; spies; are classes: Hence doomed (2) (1) of spies, spies. Local


8-1.five work, these spy of When none discover are system. all kinds at can secret the


8-2."divine manipulation of threads." called the This is


8-3.most It the is sovereign's faculty. precious


9.of inhabitants district. a of the local means Having the spies services employing


10.making of Having of use officials inward the enemy. spies,


11.of getting our the and them Having enemy's converted purposes. spies, own hold for spies using


12.purposes know doing for enemy. of things allowing spies, Having to to deception, and certain doomed them spies the and openly them of our report


13.camp. who finally, back bring enemy's spies, news are Surviving the from those


14-1.than none whole more army Hence the are to spies. that with intimate be which relations maintained it in is


14-2.more liberally None should be rewarded.


14-3.other business preserved. be In no should secrecy greater


15.sagacity. employed cannot Spies usefully certain intuitive be a without


16.benevolence cannot without They and straightforwardness. properly be managed


17.subtle one make reports. certain their mind, of of ingenuity Without the cannot truth of


18.business. for subtle! your be every kind use spies subtle! of and Be


19.to If the with secret secret time a told. piece by he must divulged whom together before spy be is the the put a man of was death to ripe, is news


20-1.to and names the attendants, storm crush and an command. a army, city, in an individual, by out to is finding of assassinate begin object the the the the or to it to door-keepers sentries always necessary general aides-de-camp, be of Whether


20-2.ascertain these. spies Our must to commissioned be


21-1.and enemy's tempted on spy out, come have us with must bribes, spies sought comfortably housed. to led away The be who


21-2.available spies and will service. they for Thus converted our become


22.It through spies. we converted that spy to employ able the local and the by and inward are is brought acquire information


23.carry tidings we can enemy. cause spy It is to his again, the to the false owing that doomed information, to


24.appointed information be Lastly, occasions. that on the by used can spy is it his surviving


25-1.spy. only spying The of in converted derived, and in of from its and this five first is be the enemy; knowledge can all the knowledge instance, varieties end the aim


25-2.be the the treated that spy essential it Hence with is liberality. converted utmost


26-1.of Chih had Yin rise was under the Of served who the old, I due to the Hsia. dynasty


26-2.the the Lu under who served rise had Likewise, Chou was Yin. dynasty of to due the Ya


27-1.thereby will and it purposes they who Hence the is for of of the intelligence great results. the and wise general highest ruler enlightened achieve spying use the only army


27-2.because a in depends water, to on ability are important army's an element move. Spies most them


