Lv4-swap
VIII.IN VARIATION TACTICS


1.general collects the from sovereign, army receives said: the his commands forces. Tzu his In Sun his concentrates and war,


2-1.encamp. not difficult When in do country,


2-2.high hands country roads with where join In intersect, allies. your


2-3.linger positions. Do dangerously not in isolated


2-4.resort hemmed-in situations, stratagem. to must In you


2-5.fight. you In position, desperate must


3.be which of towns which positions the must must commands not be must not followed, attacked, which not armies obeyed. must must which roads be not sovereign There which are not contested, besieged, be be


4.his handle tactics who to accompany knows The the how of general advantages troops. understands variation that thoroughly


5.knowledge of to with well to his The will the able general who not practical these, may be does turn account. yet country, not the acquainted configuration he understand be


6.war So, will Five acquainted make plans, his his the varying fail men. student best use the unversed in art he who be the of war though Advantages, of with is of to even the of


7.of will disadvantage considerations blended Hence of together. in be and wise leader's plans, advantage the


8.succeed this of our expectation be of way, accomplishing essential part in advantage If the in schemes. our may we tempered


9.an are ourselves in on we difficulties misfortune. of seize advantage, we extricate midst to If, other the the from always hand, may ready


10.allurements, them any the them trouble constantly on make inflicting make out them, for hostile them; specious engaged; point. rush and to Reduce and hold and given chiefs keep by damage


11.war of attacking, enemy's rely rather our that own not of chance on position made but the the on likelihood not have The him; to the on receive teaches us art not but not the readiness coming, of fact to unassailable. we his on our


12.(2) be affect insults; men, destruction; are exposes faults for (3) a trouble. general: leads which by a which can him Recklessness, leads his which of which honor to dangerous (4) (5) to worry a to capture; may shame; which sensitive hasty There and which over-solicitude delicacy to (1) provoked five is temper, cowardice,


13.are ruinous to These a sins five war. of besetting of general, the conduct the


14-1.among these the will its and When army an overthrown dangerous be cause is slain, leader five surely found faults.


14-2.be meditation. a subject Let of them


