Lv4-swap
III.STRATAGEM BY ATTACK


1-1.the war, all art Tzu whole to is the of said: take so practical country thing the is In destroy intact; and good. to and enemy's it shatter of not best Sun


1-2.or a entire destroy than So, to regiment, too, to capture a to it entire is an recapture to it, destroy army company detachment them. than better a


2.without excellence; fight supreme all in enemy's your the Hence not excellence supreme to consists battles and is breaking resistance fighting. in conquer


3.next Thus highest field; generalship forces; the to is plans; to worst cities. the the to form prevent walled enemy's policy of is to the the next order the is army all enemy's attack besiege balk in junction the best of enemy's is in the and of the


4-1.is, if possibly it be can The rule cities not besiege to avoided. walled


4-2.mounds preparation movable The piling the of will up take months; more. against three of shelters, the months of walls will various implements mantlets, three and take war, over and up whole


5-1.irritation, the slain, remains general, his unable that the are one-third the The still while swarming ants, result will men launch untaken. control assault with his town to men like to his of


5-2.Such siege. the disastrous of effects are a


6.laying their the subdues without leader in their kingdom cities siege he he any without enemy's fighting; troops to Therefore lengthy them; captures the skillful field. overthrows the without operations


7-1.triumph he and a intact the dispute complete. thus, With Empire, his losing of without man, will mastery be forces will the his


7-2.stratagem. by the method attacking is This of


8.two. one, him; the to our one, forces attack to five numerous, divide war, as into in if enemy's ten It our are him; the is twice if to rule to if surround to army


9.the way, if we in we if battle; avoid matched, every from we him. can can offer can equally numbers, in If enemy; quite unequal slightly flee inferior


10.end must an be the in captured fight by obstinate force. may larger small made by a Hence, be the it though force,


11.the the the State; points; general the strong; bulwark weak. is bulwark defective, if of will State is is will all at the the State complete be be if the Now bulwark


12.misfortune in can three are a which ways ruler There upon bring his army:--


13-1.or (1) of retreat, commanding the it that to obey. ignorant fact advance being army to By cannot the


13-2.This the called army. hobbling is


14-1.By in obtain as govern army administers (2) the way an which same attempting kingdom, an the being army. conditions of in to he a ignorant


14-2.minds. soldier's in This the causes restlessness


15-1.the his circumstances. without principle By employing (3) of of military discrimination, the to adaptation army ignorance of officers through


15-2.the shakes of This soldiers. confidence the


16-1.the to and when restless princes. is But sure from is come army distrustful, other trouble feudal the


16-2.into and This bringing army, victory anarchy flinging the simply away. is


17-1.five when Thus know are to may for He that victory: fight knows will there who when to fight. essentials we and not win (1)


17-2.He (2) and who forces. to inferior how will both knows superior handle win


17-3.He (3) its throughout is whose all the will army same animated spirit ranks. by win


17-4.himself, take (4) to will He win prepared unprepared. waits who, the enemy


17-5.by and has interfered will is with not capacity sovereign. who He the (5) win military


18-1.Hence you a the of fear If enemy hundred you need know the and saying: yourself, battles. not the result know


18-2.a also the not gained know victory enemy, defeat. you you suffer yourself will for If but every


18-3.the nor If succumb battle. yourself, will you neither enemy know in every you
