Lv4-swap
XII.FIRE THE BY ATTACK


1-1.are Sun fire. ways Tzu said: five There of with attacking


1-2.the fire dropping to is to arsenals and in is the the camp; burn The is first magazines; burn enemy. burn baggage third to burn soldiers stores; hurl is the their trains; is second fourth amongst fifth to to the


2-1.an means available. out to carry In order must have we attack,


2-2.The material in fire should be always readiness. for raising kept


3.special conflagration. is a for a for making and season attacks proper fire, starting There days with


4.the Cross-bar; The is Sieve, season very moon the of are rising Wing dry; Wall, constellations the the or four proper when the is when in is the wind. days weather special all for of the are these days the those


5-1.be developments: should attacking five possible to meet with 6. prepared In one fire,


5-2.breaks attack an from enemy's respond fire to camp, out once at without. with When (1) inside


7.there the your enemy's If outbreak (2) of time do bide quiet, soldiers attack. remain and fire, an but not is


8.the When it if that follow where the attack, force of with practicable; flames reached is not, has height, stay are. its if (3) you an up


9.within, from deliver an it with is your without, make possible do moment. attack it favorable to for break fire (4) out to not at If assault a wait but


10-1.start (5) a to of windward fire, you When be it.


10-2.attack Do leeward. the not from


11.falls. a A that soon breeze daytime rises night the wind lasts long, in but


12.the be stars calculated, connected known, and movements for developments fire army, proper the with a the five every In of the must watch days. kept


13.those an use to fire who intelligence; strength. attack show aid use accession to as an Hence the as who those water attack the an of aid gain


14.an be water, all not belongings. By of but robbed means may his of intercepted, enemy


15.who the without the is Unhappy time his his general waste and enterprise; of one tries is cultivating of succeed for stagnation. battles to in fate the win spirit and result of attacks


16.well resources. enlightened Hence good the his lays ruler his general saying: plans ahead; cultivates The the


17.use there position something an not gained; unless fight advantage; not Move the not to is your critical. you unless is troops see be unless


18.the fight to of No put should out general should into spleen; merely gratify troops his pique. a own battle simply ruler no field


19.to move; stay make If where a you advantage, are. if it is forward your not,


20.may be in content. may Anger time to vexation succeeded gladness; change by


21.been a can again be brought can never into has destroyed that dead come back nor being; once the life. kingdom to But ever


22-1.good of heedful, and full caution. general the ruler Hence is the enlightened


22-2.keep the and at army intact. an to way is This peace a country


