Lv4-swap
IV.DISPOSITIONS TACTICAL


1.said: of old of enemy. of for good beyond The then waited fighters an defeat, and opportunity Tzu defeating the put first the themselves possibility Sun


2.opportunity the of lies enemy defeating in own To enemy hands, defeat himself. our ourselves provided secure the by against is but the


3.cannot defeat, good able but of Thus fighter is to secure the certain himself make the defeating against enemy.


4.able to how One may saying: Hence being conquer to know without the do it.


5.against ability defeat the offensive. Security to taking implies the means enemy defensive tactics; defeat


6.strength; superabundance on strength. defensive a attacking, Standing the indicates insufficient of


7-1.from hides in The who he topmost flashes of forth in is attack the skilled who is the recesses of general the heaven. skilled most secret in earth; heights defense


7-2.a victory Thus is hand that on we have protect on ability to ourselves; the the one other, complete.


8.when of of ken herd victory within the acme the only it the is see To common not is excellence.


9."Well it if excellence says, and Neither Empire done!" of the the acme fight conquer is you whole and


10.to the the is no noise thunder sign sign of hear strength; is an sun sign lift to hair of no great moon of of sharp and quick autumn ear. To is sight; see a no


11.fighter the wins, only a ease. What but one clever winning called with who is ancients not in excels


12.for courage. reputation bring him neither credit Hence for his wisdom victories nor


13-1.mistakes. He battles wins by no making his


13-2.of conquering no is what Making an the establishes enemy mistakes that is victory, for defeated. means already certainty it


14.for defeat miss a enemy. which position impossible, defeating himself the not into and makes the fighter Hence does the skillful moment puts


15.to afterwards seeks the in he after and for is first war has that is strategist won, whereas looks been the battle only it defeat victorious victory. Thus who victory fights destined


16.success. the to leader thus cultivates his The law, discipline; to method moral and power consummate and strictly is it adheres control in


17.method, quantity; military thirdly, Balancing we Calculation; firstly, chances; Estimation In of Measurement; of fifthly, respect of have, secondly, fourthly, Victory.


18.owes existence Victory to Measurement to Measurement; Estimation its of Calculation; chances. quantity; of to Balancing Calculation Estimation of to and chances Earth; of to quantity Balancing


19.pound's to one, as weight opposed against the routed grain. a victorious placed army a single scale a is A in


20.like is thousand a onrush The the of waters chasm a conquering deep. of force a bursting into fathoms pent-up
