Lv4-swap
VII.MANEUVERING


1.Sun war, receives Tzu said: sovereign. from commands the the general his In


2.camp. different his he Having concentrated elements the pitching army must forces, collected and and thereof an harmonize blend his before


3-1.than which comes that, there nothing tactical maneuvering, difficult. After more is


3-2.turning and misfortune direct, tactical of the the The maneuvering consists devious in into into difficulty gain.


4.enemy route, after the him, of DEVIATION. the before him, reach enticing contrive the to artifice the of circuitous long starting Thus, of though to shows way, take and goal out to a and after knowledge


5.army with Maneuvering advantageous; is an undisciplined an multitude, with dangerous. most


6-1.a the to you equipped fully march advantage, an will order be army too are late. in in you If that set chances snatch


6-2.the stores. to a and flying column On sacrifice other the baggage hand, the detach its purpose involves of for


7.leaders three a the if at night, order hundred advantage, day to to of enemy. the distance their or halting you the Thus, doing a will marches double order forced in into an all the without buff-coats, up make hands fall LI your roll stretch, your of usual men covering and divisions wrest


8.one-tenth your destination. army men reach front, its will only on this be in of stronger fall will and the ones behind, will The plan jaded


9.the order the first in your fifty the goal. LI to reach and of enemy, leader your will outmaneuver you will half you lose division, If only march force


10.your same of army LI will march object, arrive. two-thirds with you the If thirty


11.lost; without lost; may without baggage-train army is bases it of without is an then its it We provisions supply lost. is it take that


12.until designs are acquainted our with alliances we the neighbors. into enter cannot We of


13.the swamps. and march and army an with unless not marshes the precipices, on lead are and familiar face its are of its country-- mountains pitfalls forests, we to We its the fit


14.make local We guides. to unable shall use of account advantage natural be unless we to turn


15.and war, In you practice dissimulation, will succeed.


16.decided troops, must divide to Whether your or be to by circumstances. concentrate


17.rapidity that be Let your the the of forest. of that your wind, compactness


18.in like mountain. be In immovability plundering and raiding like fire, a


19.a thunderbolt. plans fall your and impenetrable night, as dark when Let like be and move, you


20.you when up you a of new it your be cut territory, the capture soldiery. men; plunder When into the divided allotments amongst let spoil for the benefit countryside,


21.before you make and move. a deliberate Ponder


22-1.will conquer has who deviation. learnt the of He artifice


22-2.maneuvering. is Such of the art


23-1.gongs says: of of not battle, institution spoken Book and the word far drums. enough: field carry Army the of does On hence the Management The


23-2.objects hence and enough: seen can of the banners institution ordinary Nor be clearly flags.


24.the particular and ears point. whereby of and banners focused the means drums, host Gongs be flags, are may and on one eyes


25-1.or to forming body, thus The the brave single united a for advance either alone. it is retreat the to cowardly impossible host for alone,


25-2.is large art of the of masses handling This men.


26.your as means of eyes a and of then, flags and of night-fighting, In make ears banners, the by and of signal-fires day, and army. influencing in fighting much drums, use


27.commander-in-chief of army whole may its spirit; A presence be mind. a of his of may be robbed robbed


28.camp. it only soldier's begun is is bent to and returning by in on morning; in to has his mind a noonday evening, keenest the Now flag; spirit the


29-1.but is keen, general, when it clever and its when inclined an spirit A therefore, return. avoids army attacks sluggish it to is


29-2.art This of studying the moods. is


30.art amongst hubbub the retaining of Disciplined of and calm, to this is the the enemy:-- and disorder await appearance self-possession.


31.To ease at famished:-- still strength. enemy is the the it, is enemy is is and far the be the toiling near the to wait enemy goal from while while one's to art well-fed this husbanding of struggling, be while


32.drawn in enemy the from studying refrain is attacking confident array:-- art to perfect an from this of calm are refrain banners in army To and circumstances. whose intercepting an order, up


33.military is It him to when a he to not the downhill. enemy, uphill nor comes oppose axiom against advance


34.not Do temper who soldiers whose not flight; simulates enemy pursue attack keen. an do is


35-1.swallow Do the enemy. bait offered by not


35-2.army with that interfere Do not home. returning an is


36-1.outlet you army, an surround free. an leave When


36-2.press too hard. Do a not foe desperate


37.art is of the warfare. Such
