Lv4-swap
II.WAGING WAR


1-1.at of li, spent operations thousand hundred war, at where enough silver the thousand chariots total field the a the reach glue items will and of paint, and chariots, carry mail-clad a sums such said: a ounces thousand thousand and with them expenditure entertainment per swift of and Sun including of a soldiers, Tzu heavy In as on many chariots, as day. the small guests, are the provisions there and front, armor, home in to


1-2.an cost raising army is 100,000 of men. the of Such


2-1.weapons you ardor and fighting, grow their will dull then When is will men's if engage coming, long be damped. in actual in victory


2-2.your siege you strength. lay town, a will you exhaust to If


3.be equal will the protracted, not if to the the of is campaign the resources State Again, strain.


4-1.chieftains your of when your treasure your up extremity. are take advantage spent, damped, your strength other weapons exhausted spring your and ardor to dulled, will Now,


4-2.able wise, avert will man, must the consequences no be however Then ensue. that to


5.associated in seen has war, though have we been Thus, of long never with delays. stupid heard cleverness haste


6.a from warfare. is There having benefited country no of instance prolonged


7.who understand of that it profitable only the evils one carrying of thoroughly acquainted thoroughly It war can is on. with the way is


8.loaded than are The raise supply-wagons a skillful more second neither not twice. soldier his levy, does


9-1.from material Bring with war home, the enemy. on but forage you


9-2.will the needs. Thus army its enough have food for


10-1.be of State causes distance. to exchequer Poverty maintained a an the contributions army by from


10-2.at a maintain army distance impoverished. people an causes the to to Contributing be


11.the up; people's of the substance an proximity to army hand, prices be and high causes cause go other away. to drained the On prices


12.peasantry When substance heavy their by drained the is exactions. afflicted be will away,


13,14.loss and the be horses, dissipated; the will chariots, expenses With amount of strength, of income government and substance worn-out homes and spears will breast-plates of and revenue. wagons, its of be will protective for three-tenths to four-tenths heavy and exhaustion while people of their mantles, helmets, bows shields, broken draught-oxen total stripped and bare, arrows, this


15-1.point a general of a wise on enemy. foraging makes the Hence


15-2.one's cartload own, provender and a from single equivalent of the One enemy's equivalent provisions twenty to own one's to picul store. likewise is of of his is twenty


16.there the to be rewards. order kill Now in roused be have must that from must to may their enemy, our the men anger; enemy, defeating advantage they


17-1.the those first. took when rewarded more in have chariot who ten should Therefore or taken, be been chariots fighting,


17-2.and substituted those enemy, of the flags Our in conjunction for used ours. mingled and should own chariots be with the


17-3.The kindly captured and be soldiers kept. treated should


18.augment own is the using strength. conquered called, foe one's to This


19.then, be In not object let lengthy your war, campaigns. victory, great


20.on be nation peace shall the whether armies of people's be the the in Thus whom may known leader the arbiter peril. depends in it that the of it is man fate, or
