Lv4-swap
VI.STRONG AND POINTS WEAK




1.the to awaits has coming and exhausted. Sun Whoever in is whoever second the will first hasten arrive field and enemy, the for the field said: to battle in Tzu fresh fight; the be is of will


2.imposes the imposed does but not allow him. on will on the his combatant be clever to the Therefore enemy, enemy's will


3.to out holding near. it him, enemy cause the make draw can by advantages he impossible for own the approach can his By he of accord; enemy or, damage, inflicting to to


4.him; enemy force if him can his ease, starve is taking he supplied he encamped, he food, quietly out; can harass to with move. can well the him If if


5.expected. defend; march hasten to to enemy the swiftly where points not at places you are Appear must which


6.through the march distress, where without great may army is if it country An enemy marches distances not.


7-1.be only which are can places attack of you your undefended. You if in sure succeeding attacks


7-2.only that ensure can safety positions if cannot you attacked. be of the defense your You hold


8.not in defense whose general in and what that know what attack opponent does he skillful to is attack. does Hence skillful defend; whose to know is opponent not


9-1.divine art of subtlety O and secrecy!


9-2.we you can the through invisible, to Through learn we be hence in hands. enemy's fate hold our and inaudible; you


10.for irresistible, are may be movements you than your those from advance more points; retire You if enemy. safe the if enemy's be pursuit may make weak and you absolutely of rapid and the


11-1.to can fight, enemy and the even we a engagement rampart to wish forced be deep high If sheltered be though behind he a ditch. an


11-2.attack to he All do will that be relieve. is some we need place other obliged


12-1.we us ground. we merely our the on do fight, If lines enemy though wish even the the traced engaging out to from encampment not be of can prevent


12-2.we All need unaccountable odd throw his do and in way. something to is


13.divided. we can forces the remaining while be dispositions ourselves, enemy's our enemy's concentrated, By discovering invisible must and keep the


14-1.fractions. a united the must We while up can into body, form single split enemy


14-2.few. separate be a there that shall against many the whole we which to be a will pitted of enemy's Hence parts means whole,


15.a are if to inferior straits. able force thus attack opponents an one, dire be in will our superior And with we


16.at not have possible to at distributed intend The have known; prepare will shall several enemy be be against attack to being must in many we thus a then numbers the different made face to forces his will spot point the proportionately points; few. directions, and we where any fight for given


17-1.will weaken strengthen his the will right, should should should his van; his his For left, he his should will he rear, weaken rear; his weaken strengthen enemy his strengthen right; will his he left. he he he weaken strengthen van, he


17-2.sends reinforcements will If weak. everywhere, be he everywhere he


18.against preparations comes make having Numerical strength, attacks; from adversary against our numerical weakness to these compelling to us. possible from prepare


19.the and of the to in greatest Knowing order the fight. from place distances we the coming concentrate time may battle,


20-1.the place support succor or relieve rear succor right van. left, to time known, the the if will the be wing the van to impotent right, left to be rear, unable the the But equally neither the nor then to impotent


20-2.are the a if more LI! are nearest army so of LI the furthest anything even by under How several hundred and separated portions apart, much the


21-1.the of victory. shall to that exceed Though of in the our my nothing matter soldiers advantage according own Yueh them in number, estimate


21-2.can I that be achieved. victory say then


22-1.fighting. we prevent from numbers, the Though be him in may enemy stronger


22-2.his plans of their and Scheme as discover so success. the to likelihood


23-1.the of and or Rouse him, his activity learn inactivity. principle


23-2.out vulnerable so reveal to find as his him to himself, spots. Force


24.may the Carefully where where your and own, you it is opposing strength know compare deficient. superabundant army is so that with


25.the the dispositions, will machinations spies, from to safe them; the tactical the of be attain subtlest prying conceal making can highest conceal wisest you your dispositions, is of the In from you pitch and brains.


26.out How victory own the enemy's comprehend. of be for may the what cannot is that them multitude produced tactics--


27.men none is the see can can see what of I victory the but tactics conquer, out evolved. is whereby All strategy which
28.repeat which Do the your victory, let methods infinite regulated one be tactics you by have gained circumstances. but not variety the of


29.downwards. are like high its natural course water; in for places water runs and Military unto tactics from away hastens


30.weak. and to So what in the is avoid is way what is strong at to strike war,
31.according he is in facing. flows; out whom of shapes works his over the ground relation the it soldier Water course the foe its to which victory the nature to


32.water constant as conditions. Therefore, just shape, retains are warfare there no constant so no in


33.called tactics winning, his modify thereby He who to in opponent captain. heaven-born a succeed can relation be may in his and


34-1.in for other make predominant; fire, equally are The always wood, (water, not five each four elements turn. seasons the earth) metal, way


34-2.has long; waning There the moon and of and short periods waxing. its days are
