Lv4-swap
XI.SITUATIONS NINE THE


1.varieties war (4) serious contentious ground; (9) (1) ground; of highways; (6) The recognizes ground; art ground; Dispersive said: ground Tzu of (5) nine intersecting difficult open ground; ground; desperate ground: (7) hemmed-in Sun (8) (2) ground; of (3) facile ground.


2.territory, is dispersive a own it When in is chieftain his ground. fighting


3.territory, it ground. penetrated into hostile is great to has but he distance, no When facile


4.is Ground imports possession great ground. either side, which the to of advantage contentious


5.Ground has is on ground. side which liberty of open movement each


6.command, a his of three states, so who forms Ground key has at highways. the to that Empire which he occupies of intersecting most ground is the first contiguous it


7.hostile is into When number of leaving the an it of army fortified country, penetrated a cities serious ground. has in rear, its heart a


8.and is Mountain marshes steeps, fens-- all traverse: difficult rugged hard ground. this that forests, to country is


9.so body ground. to this suffice retire is is Ground men: we would our of in that from can by narrow hemmed a only large tortuous paths, of small crush enemy reached through the a and which which gorges, number


10.destruction only by delay, Ground be is desperate ground. saved which we on fighting can from without


11-1.dispersive fight ground, therefore, On not.


11-2.ground, facile not. halt On


11-3.not. On contentious ground, attack


12-1.not do block open to On way. the ground, try enemy's


12-2.On intersecting with the of allies. hands highways, your join ground


13-1.in gather ground, serious plunder. On


13-2.the keep In difficult ground, steadily march. on


14-1.hemmed-in ground, to stratagem. On resort


14-2.On ground, desperate fight.


15.between were called front co-operation rallying rescuing between old small of rear; hinder drive and to how and prevent knew who skillful leaders officers divisions; Those from to the the the their troops wedge the enemy's from his a men. to large good bad,


16.were they When managed men to them keep the in united, disorder. enemy's


17.it was they still. their stopped made forward move; a they otherwise, advantage, to When when


18.will." asked dear; host opponent of a the great your cope point your array "Begin I then with in orderly attack, the should holds to marching something enemy say: seizing of which by the be to will If to amenable and he on how


19.by and of attack way the unreadiness, is spots. unguarded your make of war: unexpected take the enemy's advantage routes, essence Rapidity


20.are you observed an thus force: you. be the by will a of solidarity the further principles The the following not against into prevail to penetrate invading the greater be country, and troops, The your defenders will


21.your with army in order supply country forays fertile Make to food. in


22-1.men, study well-being and of the Carefully not your overtax them. do


22-2.and your energy strength. hoard your Concentrate


22-3.unfathomable army Keep plans. your continually on the devise and move,


23-1.Throw prefer there no positions is your flight. soldiers to will whence escape, they death into and


23-2.achieve. may not they is they face there will nothing If death,


23-3.and their forth strength. alike Officers uttermost men put will


24-1.when straits of fear. lose desperate in sense the Soldiers


24-2.If they of no will is refuge, there stand firm. place


24-3.If a will are front. hostile stubborn they show they country, in


24-4.help it, hard. is there for no they If will fight


25.will; without without will on vive; to soldiers without trusted. orders, Thus, marshaled, giving they the the without waiting be your to can will qui be waiting be asked, they constantly they do faithful; will restrictions, be be


26-1.taking doubts. do and Prohibit superstitious away of the with omens,


26-2.calamity itself no be until death comes, need Then, feared.


27.because because not it our money, lives if are long, not they If it riches; are with is to distaste have not not are for disinclined their they a unduly soldiers is overburdened longevity.


28-1.soldiers are and On ordered day weep, your battle, may garments, run their up bedewing their letting sitting to cheeks. down down lying those out those the the they tears


28-2.and they a or But Kuei. once Chu brought a bay, to the of courage will display them be let


29-1.be tactician the The may to skillful shuai-jan. likened


29-2.in Now found that ChUng a shuai-jan mountains. is the is snake the


29-3.its you Strike strike and you both. strike you its by head at head, and and head; be tail, will will its tail its will middle, attacked tail; attacked at be by at by be attacked and its


30-1.imitate Asked I Yes. army shuai-jan, the to be made answer, can if should an


30-2.men crossing Yueh by of are just of each the the they as and in are are same yet right. helps they will For river men a storm, left to come if assistance caught and the Wu enemies; a the other's hand boat the


31.burying of the one's not ground. and trust Hence to the enough of chariot is tethering put in the it horses, wheels in


32.courage standard one to must to set an of reach. is principle The manage on which all up which army


33.the and strong use make ground. involving of is proper of best How weak-- a to both that question the


34.his though leading man, a skillful he Thus were as the general hand. by single willy-nilly, conducts army just the


35.is be the upright and and It of and ensure order. secrecy; general just, thus to a maintain business thus quiet


36.his able reports total false to ignorance. He and them officers and keep be and in mystify must thus appearances, men by


37-1.and the knowledge. enemy By his his definite keeps without altering plans, changing he arrangements


37-2.By circuitous taking shifting his and camp his purpose. anticipating routes, from the enemy he prevents


38-1.him. kicks then the one the and climbed behind an like who ladder of leader a up has army away critical height At the acts moment,


38-2.he before his territory his deep shows He men hostile carries into hand.


39.driving he he is way nothing that, shepherd breaks his this whither and sheep, a knows his flock of boats cooking-pots; men burns and He going. drives and like a his


40.his into it be this muster danger:-- host To business termed general. the bring of and the may


41.the things varieties ground; nature: the or to laws certainly of studied. these are aggressive different measures must that defensive of The tactics; expediency the most of nine and human suited be fundamental


42.hostile invading penetrating territory, penetrating means dispersion. the way When but a deeply brings general that cohesion; principle short is,


43-1.behind, territory, army When ground. country find your and leave take own critical your on yourself you you across neighborhood


43-2.one is intersecting of highways. means communication there the are sides, four all on When ground of


44-1.penetrate serious ground. When deeply you country, a is it into


44-2.but you it a little facile penetrate ground. way, When is


45-1.your front, in strongholds have on it enemy's is When passes you hemmed-in narrow and rear, the ground.


45-2.at refuge is all, place it ground. of is desperate no When there


46-1.of men with unity I dispersive Therefore, would ground, my purpose. on inspire


46-2.of would army. see between is ground, all that close parts I connection facile On my there


47.my hurry rear. I contentious ground, up would On


48-1.defenses. I on On ground, open would eye a keep my vigilant


48-2.highways, I my alliances. intersecting of On consolidate ground would


49-1.would of supplies. ensure continuous serious On I stream to ground, a try


49-2.on road. difficult I ground, On pushing along would keep the


50-1.On block any I ground, hemmed-in of retreat. would way


50-2.On saving my desperate to hopelessness ground, lives. the soldiers their proclaim would I of


51.when he help has into when obey to when himself, cannot obstinate fallen danger. is surrounded, offer soldier's the hard an promptly For it fight resistance he and to to disposition


52-1.we neighboring with designs. acquainted with enter alliance into We cannot princes are their until


52-2.of mountains country-- swamps. army unless fit marshes are its an and its on pitfalls familiar to precipices, the its lead are face the we not We forests, march with and and the


52-3.guides. natural of to shall turn account We to be unless unable use make we local advantages


53.principles be does the of ignored following a five warlike befit of any one not To prince. four or


54-1.shows enemy's the a warlike preventing concentration powerful of his attacks prince the When in generalship forces. state, a itself


54-2.their joining from opponents, his overawes are allies against and He prevented him.


55-1.nor to he states. with of Hence all strive the other does sundry, he himself ally not foster does power and


55-2.secret awe. antagonists designs, in his keeping own out He his carries


55-3.kingdoms. their overthrow capture cities he able Thus their and to is


56.man. and without handle without orders to you as to army rule, to single regard able will with though a arrangements; a Bestow be regard issue but had do whole to you previous rewards


57-1.your design. your Confront deed let them itself; soldiers know with the never


57-2.the it when bring situation nothing them but before is gloomy. eyes; When their is bright, tell outlook the


58.Place will safety. in straits, it and and come it deadly plunge in will it army your into peril, desperate survive; off


59.victory. that force is way it striking for harm's has fallen a For blow precisely when a is of into capable


60.ourselves Success the accommodating is enemy's carefully to in gained purpose. warfare by


61.succeed run commander-in-chief. in in flank, we the By the long hanging persistently the on killing enemy's shall


62.called is by sheer cunning. a accomplish to This ability thing


63.take you the official and passage emissaries. destroy passes, up stop tallies, of your command, the day the frontier the that block all On


64.so in Be situation. control you stern the council-chamber, may that the


65.leaves you door the a enemy open, If in. must rush


66.what time holds his arrival opponent the dear, he contrive to subtly your seizing Forestall by on ground. and


67.decisive by accommodate and until defined a you the to yourself path Walk fight the battle. can in enemy rule,


68.emulate late and the hare, a rapidity to be At coyness opening; then, enemy will the until an you. first, enemy the for exhibit running too you oppose of afterwards gives the maiden, of a it
