Lv4-swap
IX.ON THE ARMY MARCH THE


1-1.the enemy. encamping of question We of Sun signs the come the to Tzu and now observing army, said:


1-2.quickly keep and over the in Pass mountains, of valleys. neighborhood


2-1.high the in sun. Camp facing places,


2-2.Do not fight. order heights in climb to


2-3.mountain So warfare. for much


3.should it. crossing a from you get After far away river,


4-1.its invading not it an mid-stream. in to advance river crosses do When in meet march, a onward force


4-2.your attack. It half be across, will army let the to then deliver get best and


5.invader go to cross. If river you to a the you should which has not are near anxious fight, to he meet


6-1.Moor the sun. your up enemy, facing and higher than craft the


6-2.Do meet move to not the enemy. up-stream


6-3.much warfare. So river for


7.crossing should your be In to delay. over salt-marshes, quickly, without them get any sole concern


8-1.back fight forced of get you, clump water salt-marsh, a to and grass should to you and your a have near in trees. If


8-2.in salt-marches. So for much operations


9-1.your up the on with so danger and to easily level country, accessible and ground dry, be an position that may front, rear, in lie take your right behind. In safety rising


9-2.So flat much in country. for campaigning


10.Emperor useful of four four These to branches sovereigns. the enabled several vanquish are knowledge which Yellow the military


11.places to low dark. prefer All high sunny to and armies ground


12.kind, will ground, of If of on this free every be the victory. and are will men, spell from you your hard disease camp army and careful


13-1.occupy side, with a bank, sunny a slope rear. the your come you When right the or on hill to


13-2.utilize the benefit the of of for act and advantages once soldiers will ground. Thus the you at your natural


14.river rains swollen is must subsides. consequence wish until up-country, flecked of When, you wait a and in it with heavy ford to which foam, you


15.crevasses, be cliffs and not in hollows, torrents all quagmires places, there natural which confined are possible running speed should approached. with between, Country precipitous deep left and thickets, tangled with


16.we rear. we on While let them, while approach his keep places, the have we from enemy away should to face should the enemy we them them; get such


17.are with of aquatic be country, insidious are there the lurking. neighborhood with surrounded reeds, thick places searched; they woods should undergrowth, out where basins in be and ponds spies If grass, your in hilly for likely any these camp must filled ambush be carefully to or hollow by routed men or


18.close position. When remains strength is enemy the is of relying his hand quiet, he on the natural and at


19.a When for keeps to and anxious tries battle, the aloof he advance. is provoke he side other to


20.of tendering he access, a bait. is is place encampment easy of his If


21-1.enemy of Movement advancing. the the forest a that amongst is trees shows


21-2.screens a to means suspicious. make of in the thick number grass wants of of us The midst the that appearance enemy


22-1.an of is The in birds flight rising their the sign of ambuscade.


22-2.indicate a Startled coming. beasts that attack is sudden


23-1.When infantry. spread the there when approach the the column, in low, betokens dust sign area, a advancing; rising high a of chariots wide is over is of but it it dust is


23-2.firewood. have different in sent been it parties branches that When it directions, to shows out collect


23-3.fro dust the signify and few clouds of A that army encamping. is to moving


24-1.to are enemy that is preparations words and about the increased signs Humble advance.


24-2.and he driving attack Violent if that forward retreat. to the as will are language signs


25.take is out a sign the first When forming a light that for on the wings, up battle. it is enemy the chariots come and position


26.sworn covenant plot. a a unaccompanied by indicate proposals Peace


27.the there that and rank, means soldiers fall the about has critical When much is it into running moment come.


28.When lure. a is seen advancing retreating, are it some and some


29.from their the they spears, are leaning soldiers want of stand faint When food. on


30.sent by water drinking suffering the from draw army are begin is who thirst. If to those themselves,


31.an sees to be are exhausted. the If no and advantage the soldiers effort to enemy secure it, gained makes


32-1.it spot, If is gather on birds any unoccupied.


32-2.betokens Clamor nervousness. by night


33-1.disturbance is authority the camp, there is the general's in If weak.


33-2.afoot. shifted sedition banners about, and the flags are If is


33-3.it the the are men means If that weary. angry, officers are


34.are kills an know will fight return army its cooking-pots grain do to not horses the over with not feeds its to their their determined and hang the for may that food, they that cattle and you they when to showing men tents, camp-fires, When death. the


35.in tones subdued sight amongst whispering of speaking men small file. to rank and the The knots or disaffection together points in


36.the of the frequent is betray dire of rewards that end a signify too enemy resources; many punishments Too his distress. condition at


37.but take enemy's begin numbers, shows supreme to at by of the intelligence. To lack bluster, fright a afterwards


38.sent that a truce. their mouths, with enemy a wishes sign When are for compliments the is envoys it in


39.is the ours the situation long great circumspection. angrily facing a that demands off remain again, and vigilance battle march taking one joining or and for time enemy's without up If either troops themselves


40-1.our attack the If only that more can be direct made. sufficient; enemy, that no it number than in means are is amply troops no


40-2.enemy, keep What watch and is all our available close to reinforcements. simply do the on concentrate we can obtain a strength,


41.light by forethought sure no makes to is He but his exercises opponents them. captured of who be


42-1.punished will prove not submissive, unless will submissive; to have you, useless. attached be grown are soldiers practically If and, they they before then


42-2.have they enforced, you, the attached be become If, useless. are will still soldiers to when punishments not


43-1.first by kept under of but Therefore in be treated must means control iron soldiers the discipline. instance with humanity,


43-2.road certain victory. to is a This


44.enforced, will its bad. commands well-disciplined; the training be if will in If not, are discipline habitually be soldiers army


45.men the will general mutual. If but be orders confidence a insists in gain being on his his always obeyed, shows


