ITALIAN STORIES
VIII THE PUPPET FALLS AMONG ASSASSINS

1. He turned to look, and saw in the gloom two evil-looking black figures completely enveloped in charcoal sacks.

2. They were running after him on tiptoe, and making great leaps like two phantoms.

3. "Here they are in reality!" he said to himself, and not knowing where to hide his gold pieces he put them in his mouth precisely under his tongue.

4. Then he tried to escape.

5. But he had not gone a step when he felt himself seized by the arm, and heard two sepulchral voices saying to him: "Your money or your life!"

6. Pinocchio, not being able to answer in words, owing to the money in his mouth, made a thousand low bows and a thousand pantomimes.

7. He tried thus to make the two muffled figures, whose eyes were only visible through the holes in their sacks, understand that he was a poor puppet, and that he had not as much as a false penny in his pocket.

8. "Come now!

9. Less nonsense and out with the money!" cried the two brigands threateningly.

10. And the puppet made a gesture with his hands to signify "I have got none."

11. "Deliver up your money or you are dead," said the tallest of the brigands.

12. "Dead!" repeated the other.

13. "And after we have killed you, we will also kill your father!"

14. "Also your father!"

15. "No, no, no, not my poor papa!" cried Pinocchio in a despairing tone; and as he said it, the gold pieces clinked in his mouth.

16. "Ah!

17. You rascal!

18. Then you have hidden your money under your tongue!

19. Spit it out at once!"

20. But Pinocchio was obdurate.

21. And one of them seized the puppet by the end of his nose, and the other took him by the chin, and began to pull them brutally, the one up, and the other down, to constrain him to open his mouth, but it was all to no purpose.

22. Pinocchio's mouth seemed to be nailed and riveted together.

23. Then the shortest assassin drew out an ugly knife and tried to force it between his lips like a lever or chisel.

24. But Pinocchio as quick as lightning caught his hand with his teeth, and with one bite bit it clean off and spat it out.

25. Imagine his astonishment when instead of a hand he perceived that he had spat a cat's paw on to the ground.

26. Encouraged by his first victory he used his nails to such purpose that he succeeded in liberating himself from his assailants, and jumping the hedge by the roadside he began to fly across the country.

27. The assassins ran after him like two dogs chasing a hare; and the one who had lost the paw ran on one leg and no one ever knew how he managed it.

28. After a race of some miles Pinocchio could do no more.

29. Giving himself up for lost he climbed the stem of a very high pine-tree and seated himself in the topmost branches.

30. The assassins attempted to climb after him, but when they had reached halfway up the stem they slid down again, and arrived on the ground with the skin grazed from their hands and knees.

31. But they were not to be beaten by so little; collecting a quantity of dry wood they piled it beneath the pine and set fire to it.

32. In less time than it takes to tell the pine began to burn and flame like a candle blown by the wind.

33. Pinocchio, seeing that the flames were mounting higher every instant, and not wishing to end his life like a roasted pigeon, made a stupendous leap from the top of the tree and started afresh across the fields and vineyards.

34. The assassins followed him, and kept behind him without once giving in.

35. The day began to break and they were still pursuing him.

36. Suddenly Pinocchio found his way barred by a wide, deep ditch full of dirty water the color of coffee.

37. What was he to do?

38. "One!

39. two!

40. three!" cried the puppet, and making a rush he sprang to the other side.

41. The assassins also jumped, but not having measured the distance properly-- splash, splash!...

42. they fell into the very middle of the ditch.

43. Pinocchio who heard the plunge and the splashing of water, shouted out, laughing and without stopping: "A fine bath to you, gentlemen assassins."

44. He felt convinced that they were drowned, when, turning to look he perceived that, on the contrary, they were both running after him, still enveloped in their sacks with the water dripping from them as if they had been two hollow baskets....
