OLD-FASHIONED POEMS
THE GOOD TIME COMING

1. There's a good time coming, boys.

2. A good time coming: We may not live to see the day, But earth shall glisten in the ray Of the good time coming.

3. Cannon-balls may aid the truth, But thought's a weapon stronger; We'll win our battle by its aid;-- Wait a little longer.

4. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: The pen shall supersede the sword, And Right, not Might, shall be the lord In the good time coming.

5. Worth, not Birth, shall rule mankind, And be acknowledged stronger; The proper impulse has been given;-- Wait a little longer.

6. There's a good time coming, boys A good time coming: War in all men's eyes shall be A monster of iniquity In the good time coming.

7. Nations shall not quarrel then, To prove which is the stronger; Nor slaughter men for glory's sake;-- Wait a little longer.

8. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: Hateful rivalries of creed Shall not make their martyrs bleed In the good time coming.

9. Religion shall be shorn of pride, And flourish all the stronger; And Charity shall trim her lamp;-- Wait a little longer.

10. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: And a poor man's family Shall not be his misery In the good time coming.

11. Every child shall be a help To make his right arm stronger; The happier he, the more he has:-- Wait a little longer.

12. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: Little children shall not toil Under, or above, the soil In the good time coming; But shall play in healthful fields, Till limbs and mind grow stronger; And every one shall read and write;-- Wait a little longer.

13. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: The people shall be temperate, And shall love instead of hate, In the good time coming.

14. They shall use, and not abuse, And make all virtue stronger; The reformation has begun;-- Wait a little longer.

15. There's a good time coming, boys, A good time coming: Let us aid it all we can, Every woman, every man, The good time coming: Smallest helps, if rightly given, Make the impulse stronger; 'T will be strong enough one day;-- Wait a little longer.

16. CHARLES MACKAY
